 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         'Spherical Defence Labs' all set to fight Cyber Crime
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Working towards the mission to fight cyber crime, graduates from UCL Computer Science and NIT Trichy have come together to form "Spherical Defence Labs", a new startup doing cyber security tests for PayTM and OYO Rooms.
 
         Their inspiration was winning the second place all India at the Microsoft HackCon hacking event, and they went on to establish a global company with offices in London, Pune and California.
 
         The founders of Spherical Defence Labs are four Cyber security experts from UCL and NIT Trichy. They have an extensive background in technology and hacking, and have won multiple events whilst at college including the Paypal Hackathon and the Microsoft HackCon.
 
         They have contributed to and created popular open source projects, and have developed internal services and the website at college. They've also had multiple stints at the biggest names in tech including Microsoft, Amazon and Samsung.
 
         Dishant Shah, UCL MSc Information Security and one of the Founders says:
 
         "Cyber security is one of the biggest concerns, and something which is becoming extremely relevant. Just some time back, a major UK telecom service provider, TalkTalk was hacked and this lead to a data breach, which may have potentially included credit card data. Surprisingly this was a trivial SQL Injection vulnerability, exploited by a fifteen year old teen. At present, skilled expertise in security is hard to find. This is precisely what leads to massive vulnerabilities and loopholes, which can be exploited easily."
 
         A full article can be found at  http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ani/spherical-defence-labs-all-set-to-fight-cyber-crime-116010600561_1.html 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 14 Jan 16 14:57 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCLB spinout Satalia... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Sue Black awarded an OBE...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
