 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         *NEW* DUCO prizes for Undergraduates
 
         
          
          

         
 
         We are delighted to welcome award winning tech company DUCO as sponsors for 2015 Undergraduate Prizes for second and final year students.
 
         Computer Science second and final year Undergraduates will be rewarded for academic excellence with cash prizes kindly donated by our sponsor DUCO - a London-based fintech company that helps banks outsource reconciliation processes.
 
         DUCO's sponsorship for second year prizes is based on students work on real life projects with leading industry clients. This culminates in a showcase of our students' "Proof of Concepts" with a series of live demos, presentations and Q&A, for which DUCO will award £1000 in cash prizes for the team with the best Proof of Concept. Tech categories include Big Data, Internet of Things, Wearables, and Integrated Graphics. Concepts include home energy analytics, workplace occupancy testing, and embedded interactive systems for schools.
 
         Projects are supported by a range of industry clients that include ATOS, Qualcomm, Orange Labs, British Library, British Museum, Guy’s & St. Thomas’ Hospitals, and Morgan Stanley.
 
         Our final year students with the highest final exam marks will be also be awarded £1000 cash prizes at an event at the end of term in June. We thank UCL-CS Alumnus Dr Christian Nentwich, CEO and Co-Founder of DUCO, and Mr Michael Marconi, Co-Founder of Duco, for their support and we look forward to awarding prizes. 
 
         Prizes are awarded in recognition of outstanding academic achievement and contribution to UCL Computer Science. Industrial partners who sponsor or donate prizes will be publicised by the Department and can enjoy being associated with our best performing students.
 
         For more information contact Steve Marchant.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 16 Feb 15 09:56 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Dr Jade Alglave wins... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: New Global Digital...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
