 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Minutes ›› 10 February 2016 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        UCL Department of Computer Science 
 
        Departmental Staff Student Consultative Committee (DSSCC) 
 
        Minutes of the meeting held at 13:00 on Wednesday 10 February 2016 
 
        Roberts 422 
 
        Staff present: 
 
        Robin Hirsch (Professor of Mathematical Foundations of Computing / Academic Coordinator for Masters Programmes). 
 
        Student Academic Representatives present: 
 
        Alexander Gamble (3rd Year UG Rep) (Chair) 
 
        Jaromir Latal (1st Year UG Rep), Apinan Hasthanasonihat (2nd Year UG Rep), Yee Chong Tan (2nd Year UG Rep), Rohan Kopparapu (3rd Year UG Rep), Manoj Vaseekharan (4th Year UG Rep), Konstantine Eleftherios Metallinos (MSc CSML), Victor Yip (MSc BA), Lucky Onwuzurike (2nd Year CS PhD). 
 
        In attendance: 
 
        Nisha Gosai (Teaching and Learning Manager), Simone Thompson (Senior Teaching and Learning Administrator, Undergraduate) (Secretary). 
 
        Apologies: 
 
        Graham Roberts (Departmental Tutor, DEOLO, Director of Studies), Jill Saunders (Departmental Manager), Kevin Bryson (Senior Lecturer, Programme Director MSc CS, Admissions Tutor MS CS), Tracy Williams (Senior Postgraduate Administrator). 
 
        Christopher Hammond (1st Year UG Rep), Tak Loon Ng (MSc WS&BDA), Ruba Abu-Salma (1st Year PhD), Connor Clooney (MSc SSE), Qiusi Xu (MSc CF). 
 
        Paper circulated: PG ASER Evaluative Report and Development and Enhancement Plan 
 
        1             Apologies for absence 
 
        1.1           The Chair welcomed the committee and noted apologies. 
 
        2             Notification of any other business 
 
        
2.1          An additional item was raised (see item 6 – National Student Survey). 
 
        3             Approval of the minutes of the previous meeting 
 
        3.1           The minutes of the meeting held on Wednesday 27th November 2015 were approved as an accurate record. 
 
         4             Matters arising from the minutes of the previous meeting 
 
        4.1          Coursework return deadline 
 
        4.1.1       Rohan Kopparapu reported that none of the 3rd year tutors had specified the return date of coursework for any of the first term assignments. It was noted that other year groups were experiencing similar issues and in some instances coursework was returned a month or two late. 
 
        4.1.2       It was noted that this issue had been raised continually over the last few years.  Robin Hirsch apologised and informed the student representatives that the issue was a top priority for the department. The Head of Department and the academic team were currently investigating ways of implementing better planning and time management for providing coursework feedback. 
 
        4.2          Teaching group space 
 
        4.2.1       See minute 5.2.1 
 
         5             New Items 
 
         5.1          Annual Student Experience Review (ASER) Evaluative Report / Development and Enhancement Plan Review 
 
        5.1.1       Robin Hirsch referred to the ASER report circulated at the beginning of the meeting and explained that this was focused on the department’s postgraduate programmes for the 2014/15 academic year. 
 
        5.1.2       He explained that the National Student Survey (NSS) results (provided by final year undergraduates) had highlighted several areas that required improvement, such as the student experience and coursework feedback. He stated that it was a priority for the department to improve these areas and asked the postgraduate student representatives if there were any other areas they would like to feedback on. 
 
        5.1.3       The student representatives indicated issues in the following areas: (i) the relevancy of coursework - particularly the practical application of module material for work in industry, (ii) coursework set simultaneously, (iii) the quality and flexibility of teaching assistants, and (iv) inappropriate space allocation for popular lectures. 
 
        5.1.4       Nisha Gosai explained that rooms were currently allocated based on an estimated number of students enrolled on modules; consequently, if module selection was earlier, UCL would be able to use actual numbers and therefore allocate space more appropriately. UCL was looking into the possibility of allowing students to make module selections as part of the current pre-enrolment process. 
 
        5.1.5       It was noted that the number of Teaching Assistants had not increased in line with the number of students. 
 
        Action: Review of Teaching Assistant support at Departmental Teaching Committee. 
 
        5.2             Space for Computer Science students to work 
 
        5.2.1       Rohan Kopparapu reported that many 4th year students had complained about the lack of private work space. Space in labs was limited due to the equipment but students were not in favour of removing computers; even though there were concerns raised about how long these machines take to boot up. He enquired whether tables and chairs could be reallocated to the 4th floor foyer area to create additional workspace. He also suggested that it would be useful to know which rooms were available when not in use. 
 
        5.2.2       It was noted that the CS administration were only able to view space availability for the rooms managed by the department. 
 
        5.3             Water Coolers on the 4th floor 
 
        5.3.1       Rohan Kopparapu reported that the water cooler next to Lab 4.06 had no water bottles for a very long period of time. He asked whether as well as ensuring there was always adequate supply, that another water cooler also be obtained for CS students as this was the only water cooler they had access to in the building. 
 
        Action: Simone to speak to JJ regarding obtaining a new water cooler for CS students 
 
        5.4             Slack funding for MSc Programmes 
 
        5.4.1       Victor Yip explained that Slack is an internal communications platform similar to WhatsApp that he would like the department to purchase for current students and alumni. The department would be eligible for an educational discount, which would work out to approximately £12 per student per year. 
 
        Action: Request to be put forward for consideration at the Teaching Committee. 
 
        6                   Any other business 
 
        6.1             National Student Survey 
 
        6.1.1       Nisha Gosai highlighted that the National Student Survey (NSS) was now live and invited final year students to participate. The NSS is available at: www.thestudentsurvey.com. 
 
        7                   Date of the next meeting 
 
        7.1             The date of the next meeting to be confirmed. 
 
        End of meeting
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Simone Thompson 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
