 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         1st yr undergrads at Microsoft's Devices & Networking Summit
 
         
          
          

         
 
         In collaboration with Microsoft UK, Microsoft Research and Microsoft USA, the UCL Engduino has successfully been integrated with the TouchDevelop programming environment which was demonstrated at the Microsoft Research Devices and Networking Summit 2015 in Paris.
 
         This hands-on model of teaching kids to program with devices and sensors opens doors to a huge arena of CS education. A cohort of first year Computer Science students have developed the UCL Coding Curriculum, which will be updated yearly with exercises for school children to learn to code with. 
 
         At the Summit in Paris, five of the first year student projects this year were demonstrated to an audience of academics and companies. These included a slouching sensor app, an app for drones to collect readings in the air, an RFID card reader and a door security system. The Coding Curriculum materials were also explained, showing how our first years can help to teach school children.
 
         Each attendee was also given a UCL Engduino to take away, sponsored by Microsoft Research. The UCL team that took part in presenting consisted of Dr Dean Mohamedally, Dr Venus Shum, Dr Yun Fu, Rae Harbird and Jan Medvesek. Several Professors attending the summit got the opportunity to trial the device and explore its features, including Prof Judith Bishop (http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/jbishop/), Head of Computer Science and Prof Bill Buxton (www.billbuxton.com ), Principal Researcher, both at Microsoft Research. 
 
         Dr Mohamedally reports: "We are exceptionally proud of the first years CS work, which has led to the publication of several exercise examples for use in schools. They used ideas of Constructionism and problem-based learning to really engage with interesting and entertaining examples. We also thank the schools that came on board to trial with Rae and the teaching team. We look forward to the next iteration of our UCL Coding Curriculum and reaching out to a larger number of schools."
 
         Please visit engduino.org for more information. We thank Microsoft for their continued support of our students projects.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 26 May 15 08:48 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Gordana Novakovic to... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Dr Steve Hailes receives...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
