 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         3Dami Summer School at UCL
 
         
          
          

         
 
         This summer a group of 13-18 year old school students made 3D computer animated films in just seven days at the 3Dami Summer School (www.3dami.org), hosted by UCL Department of Computer Science. 3Dami is an organisation founded to promote digital art amongst pre-university students, by linking them with each other and industry, and is supported by UCL Engineering. 3Dami’s entirely free Summer School annually welcomes applications and portfolios from hundreds of applications, after which this year twenty seven school students were selected to work in three teams. They were granted complete artistic freedom and followed an entire film creation pipeline – from scriptwriting on the opening day, right through to a finished film, which they premièred in front of an audience on the final evening. 
 
         The 3Dami summer school exists at the intersection of art and technology, welcoming those either artistically inclined, or of a more technical mind. 3Dami attempts to compliment the call for more recognition for Computer Science in schools, as well as for improved digital art education. UCL and 3Dami’s approach to education attempts to be different. Making a film is a great motivator; personalised one on one teaching makes for a strong learning environment; and the chance to meet with the film première audience, including technology and film industry experts, gives students excellent feedback. The UK has one of the world’s largest digital arts and games industries, yet despite this there is little formal education available, and limited awareness outside the industry of how to get started. 3Dami aims to encourage, mentor and celebrate the talents of young 3D content creators, providing them with the resources and experience to develop towards becoming professionals. The complexity of making a 3D animated film teaches numerous skills – students learn the ropes in a semi-realistic studio setup, they must think on their feet, sharpen their teamwork and develop their computational thinking. 
 
         The primary tool students work with is Blender, an open source 3D modelling package that also includes compositing, video editing and match moving. Students also use a variety of other software packages to prepare content for Blender, specifically Inkscape (vector graphics), GIMP (photo editing) and MyPaint (realistic media simulation). The completed films, ‘No Pain, No Train’, ‘Snail Fail’, and ‘Baby Rumble’ can all be found here http://www.3dami.org.uk/?page_id=898.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 21 Aug 14 10:43 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Media Futures Group... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL Engineering QuanTech...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
