 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         ACM Fellowships awarded to two UCL-Computer Science professors
 
         
          
          Stephen Robertson (L) and Ingemar Cox

         
 
         We are delighted to announce that two UCL Computer Science colleagues have been appointed to prestigious ACM Fellowships this year:

         	Ingemar Cox, Professor of Telecommunications, for contributions to computer vision, image retrieval, and digital watermarking; and 
	Stephen Robertson, Visiting Professor, for contributions to the theory and practice of information retrieval.


         ACM (Association for Computing Machinery) is the world’s largest educational and scientific computing society, to advance computing as a science and a profession. 
 
         ACM recognises its members for their contributions to computing that are driving innovations across multiple domains and disciplines.  The 2013 ACM Fellows,  from the world’s leading universities, corporations, and research labs, have achieved advances in computing research and development that are accelerating the digital revolution and impacting every dimension of how we live, work, and play… worldwide.  
 
         ACM President Vinton G. Cerf celebrated the impact of innovations achieved by this year’s ACM Fellows. “We recognize these scientists and engineers, creators and builders, theorists and practitioners who are making a difference in our lives,” he said.  “They’re enabling us to listen, learn, calculate, and communicate in ways that underscore the benefits of the digital age.  Their advances have led to opportunities for improved healthcare, enhanced security, expanded interactions, and enriched lifestyles.  Some recipients have also led efforts to extend computing across continents and countries including Brazil, China, and Germany.” 
 
         ACM will formally recognize the 2013 Fellows at its annual Awards Banquet in June 2014, in San Francisco. Additional information about the ACM 2013 Fellows, as well as previous ACM Fellows and award winners is available on the ACM Awards site.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 20 Dec 13 11:00 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Students invited to... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: £2.8million funding...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
