 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› Degrees 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        Our Degrees
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
          

       
 
        
        
        
         
         
          

       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
          Undergraduate Degrees
 
           
            
            
             
            
             Undergraduate Degrees

            
 
             
             
            	BSc Computer Science
	MEng Computer Science (with optional year abroad)
	MEng Mathematical Computation

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
          Postgraduate MSc Degrees
 
           
            
            
             
            
             MSc Degree Programmes

            
 
             
             
            Subject Specialist Degrees:

            	MSc Business Analytics
	MSc Computational Finance
	MSc Computational Statistics and Machine Learning 
	MSc Computer Graphics, Vision and Imaging
	MSc Data Science
	MSc Financial Risk Management
	MSc Financial Systems Engineering
	MSc Human-Computer Interaction with Ergonomics
	MSc Information Security
	MSc Machine Learning
	MSc Robotics and Computation
	MSc Software Systems Engineering
	MSc Web Science and Big Data Analytics
	MSc Computer Science - Mahidol University, Thailand


            Generalist Degrees for NON-Computer Science Graduates only:

            	MSc Computer Science


            Computer Science related Degrees:

            	MSc Scientific Computing

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
          Research Degrees
 
           
            
            
             
            
             MRes Degrees Programmes

            
 
             
             
            Like our MSc programmes, MRes programmes are one calender year but with more emphasis on research through a longer research project and a corresponding reduction in the number of taught modules. MRes's are therefore an excellent preparation for entering a PhD programme, indeed many Doctoral Training Centres (DTC's) such as our DTC in Financial Computing have an initial MRes training year. We will be offering a number of competitive scholarships for our PhD programmes that those taking our MRes programmes will be eligible to apply for.
 
            We currently offer:

            	MRes Computational Statistics & Machine Learning
	MRes Financial Computing
	MRes Robotics
	MRes Virtual Reality
	MRes Web Science & Big Data Analytics
	Other Research Degrees in Engineering...

 
             
           
 
            
            
            
             
            
             PhD Degree Programmes

            
 
             
             
            	 PhD programme: allows students to conduct research in any of the wide range of specialities.
	EngD programme: run in collaboration with the Bartlett School of Architecture and focuses on research in Virtual Environments, Imaging and Visualisation.
	UK PhD Centre in Financial Computing: UCL in collaboration with the London School of Economics (LSE) and the London Business School (LBS) and twenty leading financial institutions have been awarded £7m (€8m) by the UK Government to establish a national PhD training centre in Financial Computing.
	UCL SECReT: the new £17m national centre for PhD training in security and crime science at University College London, the first centre of its kind in Europe.
	UCL EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Medical Imaging: offers a 4 year programme in Medical Imaging. There is a strong focus on new image acquisition technologies, novel data analysis methods and integration with computational modelling.

 
             
           
 
            
          
 
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
 
         
          

       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Virtual Open Days

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          Registration is now open for Computer Science's Virtual Open Days. The Open Days are for anyone interested in studying BSc, MEng, MSc & MRes level programmes.
 
          Join us online to chat to our Admissions Tutor, Teaching Staff, Programme Administrator and current students. To join, please register here and we will send you a link just prior to the Open Day. 
 
          Upcoming Virtual Open Days:

          	MSc/MRes Computational Statistics & Machine Learning, MSc Machine Learning and MSc Data Science (specialisation in Computer Science), 5 April 1-2pm
	MSc Business Analytics, 10 April 11am-12pm
	MSc Information Security, 25 April, 1.30-2.30pm
	MSc Software Systems Engineering & MSc Financial Systems Engineering, 27 April, 1-2pm
	MSc Computational Finance, 28 April, 12-1pm

 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Why study with us

        
 
         
         
         
         
          
          	Why choose UCL
	Employability
	Facilities
	Industry
	#1 for Research
	360 Tours

 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              Why choose UCL

             
 
              
              
             We are one of the world's best universities, consistently placed in the global top 20 in a wide range of world rankings. Currently we are 5th in the QS World University Rankings, and 4th in Europe in the Shanghai Jiao Tong Academic World Rankings. UCL has a global outlook, nearly 40% of our students come from over 150 countries worldwide – UCL enjoys a friendly and cosmopolitan atmosphere. We also support ambition; UCL Advances, our centre for entrepreneurship, offers networking and business support, and the chance to win start-up funding for UCL students seeking to start their own business.
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              Employability

             
 
              
              
             Our graduates are particularly valued because of UCL’s international reputation, the Department’s strong links with top industry partners, and an ideal location close to the City of London. Throughout the year we offer a programme of careers events aimed at sharpening the key skills needed to improve students’ employability. 95% of our graduates find work or further study six months after graduation, and a Computer Science graduate enjoys an average starting salary of £32,120 (according up-to-date graduate surveys). Recent graduate destinations include Microsoft, IBM, Google, Cisco, Deutsche and JP Morgan.
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              Facilities

             
 
              
              
             UCL is home to the largest educational Stock-Trading Floor in London, where real-time data feeds from major global stock exchanges recreate the excitement an investment bank trading floor. Students can also experiment in 3-D our Immersive Virtual Environments Lab, which uses high-resolution stereo-pair images, projected in real-time on three walls and the floor, to recreate virtual scenarios. Computer facilities include a multi-apps studio lab installed with touch screens and local device connectivity; a 3-D lab with 3-D printing connectivity; and a 300-user cluster virtual lab which students can use remotely. 
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              Industry

             
 
              
              
             We enjoy growing our relationships with exciting start-ups on Silicon Roundabout, as well as collaborating closely with world-leading technology and finance companies. This means students engage with industry throughout their course - they work on real-world projects with industry clients; are awarded industry prizes; attend guest lectures delivered by industry experts; and can benefit from ongoing support from our alumni mentoring service. Internships with industry partners are available throughout the year.
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              #1 for Research

             
 
              
              
             The 2014 Research Excellence Framework (REF) evaluation ranked UCL 1st for Computer Science in the UK, out of 89 Universities assessed, and considerably ahead of other Institutions. 61% of our research work is now rated as world-leading (the highest possible category), and 96% of our research work is now rated as internationally excellent. Our research has made a deep, lasting and sustained impact on today’s society. Code written at UCL is used  across all 3G mobile networks for instant messaging and videoconferencing; medical image computing has led to faster prostate cancer diagnosis and has developed tools to help neurosurgeons avoid damagingessential communication pathways during brain surgery; and our human-centred approach to computer security has transformed the UK government’s delivery of online security.
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             Take a 360 virtual tour of our Immersive Display Lab and our Touch Lab
 
              
               

               

               
               

            
 
             
           
 
          
 
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         

         
          

       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         About us

        
 
         
         
         
         
          
          
            
             
             
              
              
              
               
              Some of our undergraduates made a short video about studying Computer Science and life as a student at UCL.
 
               
             
 
              
              
              
               
              
               
              
 
               
             
 
              
              
              
               
              Our research makes a deep and lasting impact on all aspects of society. See how our work is modelling the world around us.
 
               
             
 
              
              
              
               
              
               
              
 
               
             
 
              
              
            
 
             
           

          
 
          
            
             
             
              
              
              
               
              Dr Dan Stoyanov tells us about the wide array of options available to Computer Science students at UCL.
 
               
             
 
              
              
              
               
              
               
              
 
               
             
 
              
              
              
               
              UCLU Tech Society connects students with industry through events and initiatives and is free for students to join. 
 
               
             
 
              
              
              
               
              
               
              
 
               
             
 
              
              
            
 
             
           

          
 
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
