 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Industry & Outreach ›› Advisory Board 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         External Advisory Board

        
 
         
         
        Links between industry and education are important to us so that we train students who are equipped to make the greatest possible impact in the workplace as well as guaranteeing our teaching is relevant and informed by problems currently facing industry. Our External Advisory Board offers advice on our current and proposed activities; it provides us with the opportunity to consider plans for re-invigorating and restructuring our degrees; and helps shape our Research Impact Stories. For enquiries to the External Advisory Board please contact Steve Marchant. 
 
        The External Advisory Board last met in November 2016. 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         We are pleased to welcome the following members to the Board:

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         

         
          

       
 
        
        
        
         
        Prof Mandy Chessell (Chair), Distinguished Engineer at IBM. 
 
        Also awarded the title of IBM Master Inventor and a Member of the IBM Academy of Technology leadership team. Was the first female to be awarded the Silver Medal of the Royal Academy of Engineering, and in 2002 was made a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering. Holds a Visiting Professorship at the University of Sheffield. 
 
        Dr Philip Bonhard, User Experience Architect at Accenture. 
 
        Ten years of combined industry and academia experience in User Experience Design, Human Computer Interaction and Usability. Industry experience includes government agencies, media, telecommunications and high tech clients.
 
        Dr Reza Hazemi, Partner at Deloitte. 
 
        Previously Associate Partner at IBM. Over 15 years track record as an enterprise architect. Strong technical, strategy, solution design and delivery background. Also published two books and several papers aroun collaborative learning.  
 
        Dr Andrew Herbert, former Chair at Microsoft Research. 
 
        Previously Director of Advanced Technology at Citrix Systems Inc, before founding Digitivity Inc to develop a product to enable for secure deployment of Java clients for business-to-business applications. Also a Fellow of The Royal Academy of Engineering.
 
        Aideen O'Brien, Vice President at Morgan Stanley.
 
        Joined Morgan Stanley as a graduate in 2004 as a Java/db developer building cash processing systems for the Prime Brokerage business. After a stint in Hong Kong, she returned to London and joined the FX team to project manage the build out of low latency pricing systems. Aideen graduated with a Bsc in Business Information Systems from University College Cork.
 
        Lesley Payne, Head of Innovation at Nuffield Health.
 
        Currently Head of Innovation at Nuffield Health. Previously, directed the Bupa/UCL partnership for Digital Health Excellence, was a successful entrepreneur, an ERP implementer while a VP at Neuberger Berman and consultant at both Deloitte and Accenture delivering business value at all levels.
 
        Dr Paul Phillips, Director at Causata. 
 
        A pioneer and experienced entrepreneur, in 2000 founded Touch Clarity, a software company that developed the online content targeting platform that was to become the platform of choice for the largest consumer Financial Service companies, including American Express.
 
        Dr Geoffrey Taylor, President & CEO of SAS. 
 
        Heads up the Academic Programme in UK and Ireland for the global industry leader in Business Analytics, SAS. Holds several global positions within SAS and maintains a high-level interest in the Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) agenda.
 
        Dr Richard Wheeldon, Senior Developer, Cisco. 
 
        Security specialist working for Cisco’s London-based ScanSafe organization. Contributed to the UCL Malted project, has worked on novel techniques for web search and navigation and previously worked for security firm Geoquip and news agency Reuters.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 23 Feb 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
