 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Degree Programme ›› Affiliate Students 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         UCL Computer Science modules for Affiliate Students (2016/17)

        
 
         
         
        Welcome! This page contains information for students who are considering studying for a period at UCL and who wish to include UCL Computer Science modules in their programmes. 
 
        Most of the information below is targeted at affiliate students who have UCL Computer Science as their admitting department. Affiliate students from other departments should visit the information on modules available to them. The end of this page has some information about becoming an affiliate student in UCL Computer Science.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Induction January 2017

        
 
         
         
        The UCL Computer Science “Meet Your Department” and Induction will be Friday 6 January MPEB 1.20, 10.00am-12.00pm.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Which modules can you take?

        
 
         
         
        To take any module you must have the prerequisite knowledge and skills, including language skills. Specific modules which are prerequisite for others are stated in the syllabus. Obviously, affiliate students will not have done precisely these modules so they should interpret these prerequisites as meaning "module X or equivalent". Not all prerequisites are explicitly stated. For example, there is an unstated assumption that all students following one of our second-year undergraduate modules will have completed our first-year core undergraduate programme. To help you understand what this means, our undergraduate programmes are presented below. 
 
        You can select computer science modules from the following areas:

        	modules taught to our own Computer Science undergraduates;
	modules we teach to students on other degree programmes;
	modules especially designed for computer science non-specialists


        A complete list of undergraduate modules offered by the Department of Computer Science is available here. Note that, whilst we endeavour to keep this information up-to-date we cannot guarantee that all the modules listed here will run.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         What are "Modules" and "Credits"?

        
 
         
         
        Most computer science modules are worth 15 UCL credits. Our own undergraduate students take modules to a total of 120 credits each year. A typical 15 UCL credit module comprises 30 one-hour lectures plus supporting tutorials, problem classes and labs as needed.  Most often these 30 lectures fit into a single term (autumn or spring) though, occasionally, a module is spread over two terms.  In addition to attending lectures and tutorials students complete coursework assignments, exercises, private study and revision to a total of approximately 150 hours. 
 
        A UCL 15-credit module is worth 7.5 ECTS credits. 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         How will you be assessed?

        
 
         
         
        Modules are normally examined through a combination of marked coursework, classroom tests and written examination. The relative weightings of these vary from module to module and are documented in each individual syllabus. Nearly all modules include a written paper which must be sat in the UCL main exam period (May). 
 
        Affiliate students who are at UCL for the Autumn (Fall) term only are normally offered an 'alternative assessment' to the written paper in May. Check with the module tutor/ or CS tutor for affiliate students if you are unsure. 
 
        Further information about pass marks and assessment may be found in the document "Assessment of Undergraduate Modules in the Department of Computer Science ". However, bear in mind that this document is written for students registered for full degree programmes and not all of it is relevant to you.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Our undergraduate programmes

        
 
         
         
        Although you are unlikely to be following a computer science programme exactly like those we teach to our own students, we feel that making your choice will be easier if you know how modules fit into our normal programmes.  
 
        First-year modules
 
        BSc/MEng Computer Science students follow a core programme which includes the following modules: 
 
        The 1st Year core programme 

        	Term 1 	Term 2 
	COMP101P Principles of Programming 	COMP103P Object Oriented Programming 
	COMP102P Theory I	COMP104P Theory II 
	ENGS101P Integrated Engineering *	MATH6301 Discrete Maths 
	ENGS102P Design and Professional Skills *
	COMP105P Robotics Programming


        *ENGS101P and ENGS102P are not taught by UCL Computer Science and are not available to affiliate students. 
 
        We assume no prior experience of computer science or programming at the start of the first year, however a good level of mathematics is definitely required.  
 
        Second-year modules
 
        BSc/MEng Computer Science students follow the common core programme below. The key point to remember here is that all our students will have learned to program in the first year. Therefore, competence in programming will be assumed in all modules that follow. 
 
        The second-year core programme

        	Term 1 	Term 2 
	COMP201P Networking and Concurrency 	COMP206P Maths and Stats 
	COMP202P Logic and Database Theory 	COMP205P Systems Engineering Project 2
	COMP203P Software Engineering and HCI 	COMP207P Compilers 
	COMP204P Systems Engineering Project 1	
	COMP206P Maths and Stats 	


        *COMP204P, COMP205P and COMP206P are only available to affiliate students at UCL for the full academic year. 
 
        Our students also take a minor elective. COMP209P Cognitive Systems and Intelligent Technologies is expected to be a popular choice. 
 
        Our undergraduate programme involves scenario weeks where students work on a project topic.  There are no timetabled lectures during the Scenario Weeks for COMP206P, COMP207P, COMP209P, or COMP210P.   
 
        The scenario weeks in the second year are: 
 
        Term 1, week 5 (10) – before reading week, Term 1, week 10 (16) – last week 
 
        Term 2, week 1 (20) – first week, Term 2, week 7 (26) – after reading week 
 
        Third-year modules
 
        The third year offers students the opportunity to pursue their particular interests, by making option choices from among a wide range. Details of our core and option modules are given in our curriculum pages. * 
 
        *Modules COMP3091, COMP3095 and COMP3096 are only available to affiliate students at UCL for the full academic year. 
 
        Fourth-year modules
 
        UCL Computer Science offers a wide range of fourth year modules. These are at advanced level and will only be offered to exceptionally well-qualified students. Details are given in our curriculum pages  
 
        Modules taught by UCL Computer Science for students from other UCL departments

        	Term 1	Term 2
	COMP211P Introduction to Programming	COMP210P Introduction to Programming

		COMP6010 Computer Music

 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         How to sign-up for CS modules

        
 
         
         
        Applications to become affiliate students are handled by the UCL Access & Admissions Office, not by the Department of Computer Science. Detailed information is linked from http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/international/affiliate 
 
        Once you have accepted your place at UCL, please see the UCL International Student Support Office at http://www.ucl.ac.uk/iss for essential information. These pages include advice on preparing for your arrival, the Orientation Programme, and support during your time at UCL. 
 
        When you arrive at UCL you will need to register for the modules you wish to take. In the case of CS modules, you will need to contact the Computer Science Affiliate Tutor at affiliates@cs.ucl.ac.uk. Please note that all registrations will be subject to approval by Jens who will try to ensure that your choices are within your capabilities, yet challenging. Note also that we cannot guarantee that all the modules listed above will run nor that there will be space available for additional students. However, we do not normally have problems with devising suitable programmes for affiliate students. 
 
        Admittance to UCL Computer Science
 
        UCL Computer Science gets more applications than there is space for affiliate students.  We will only consider students that have a good Computer Science background (i.e. have taken at least three CS classes) and usually require a Computer Science major. All applications that are not immediately rejected will be ranked after the application deadline and final acceptance/rejection decisions will be made based on the ranking.
 
        Please note that UCL Computer Science will not admit students as affiliates who only wish to take Level 1 or elective modules.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Further Information

        
 
         
         
        	The UCL website has lots of relevant information including the "Study Abroad Guide";
	For further information on modules taught in the Department of Computer Science start here;
	Specific queries should be sent by email to affiliates@cs.ucl.ac.uk.

 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Mar 2017 and is maintained by 
      Steve Marchant 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
