 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         AI predicts outcome of human rights cases
 
         
          
          

         
 
         An artificial intelligence system has correctly predicted the outcomes of hundreds of cases heard at the European Court of Human Rights,  UCL researchers have claimed. The AI predicted the verdicts to an accuracy of 79%, according to the scientists involved.
 
         AI is increasingly being used in fields such as journalism, law and accountancy, though critics said no AI would be able to understand the nuances of a legal case. The study, which was conducted by researchers at UCL Computer Science, led by Dr Nikolaos Aletras of the Media Futures Research Group, and the universities of Sheffield and Pennsylvania, does not spell an end to lawyers, the researchers said.
 
         "There is a lot of hype about AI but we don't see it replacing judges or lawyers any time soon. What we do think is they'd find it useful for rapidly identifying patterns in cases that lead to certain outcomes," said Dr Nikolaos Aletras. "It could also be a valuable tool for highlighting which cases are most likely to be violations of the European Convention on Human Rights."
 
         The team identified English language datasets for 584 cases related to three articles of the Convention on Human Rights:

         	Article 3 (cases involving torture or degrading treatment)
	Article 6 (rights to a fair trial)
	Article 8 (respect for private life)


         These were picked both because they represented cases about fundamental rights and because there was a large amount of published data on them. The algorithm looked for patterns in the text and was able to label each case either as a "violation" or "non-violation". To prevent bias and mislearning, the team selected an equal number of violation and non-violation cases for the AI to learn from.
 
         "Ideally, we'd test and refine our algorithm using the applications made to the court rather than the published judgements, but without access to that data we rely on the court-published summaries," said UCL's co-author Dr Vasileios Lampos.
 
         The algorithm tended to get judgements wrong when there were two similar cases - one a violation and one not, suggesting that the platform was not able to detect the finer subtleties of the law. The next stage for the researchers is to test the system with more data.
 
         "There is no reason why it cannot be extended to understand testimonies from witnesses or lawyers' notes," Dr Aletras told the BBC. 
 
         The full story is on the BBC website at http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-37727387  
 
         It is also featured on The Guardian websitehttps://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/oct/24/artificial-intelligence-judge-university-college-london-computer-scientists; 
 
         The Telegraph website www.telegraph.co.uk/science/2016/10/23/artifically-intelligent-judge-developed-which-can-predict-court/; 
 
         and The Daily Mail website www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3865238/Computer-predict-Euro-judges-rulings-Scientists-create-program-gave-correct-verdict-three-quarter-cases.html
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 24 Oct 16 09:23 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL Wins First Minerva... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: How hackers handle...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
