 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         Alexandra Silva wins EATCS Presburger Award 2017 
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The 2017 Presburger Committee consisting of Marta Kwiatkowska (chair), Stephan Kreutzer and Jukka Suomela has completed its deliberations and unanimously selected Dr Alexandra Silva, Senior Lecturer at UCL Computer Science, as recipient of the 2017 EATCS Presburger Award (European Association for Theoretical Computer Science) for young scientists.
 
         Alexandra Silva has been instrumental in fostering the field of coalgebraic modelling and reasoning. In her groundbreaking thesis in 2010, she developed Kleene coalgebra, showing how automata and their extensions can be naturally embedded within a coalgebraic framework and formulating the coalgebraic analogue of Kleene's theorem.
 
         This fundamental new insight has paved the way for mechanizing the correspondence between state-based and behavioural views of systems in much more general settings than was possible before. Working with collaborators, Alexandra employed coalgebraic techniques to shed new light into language equivalences, automata minimization and determinisation, resource allocation problems and infinitary term rewriting, in particular providing an explanation for why the Brzozowski minimization algorithm works and extending it to many other settings.
 
         More recently, her work has also resulted in practical impact in programming languages and software defined networks, including probabilistic extensions. Alexandra's work is of exceptional quality and visibility, and has already been taken up by many researchers, establishing her credentials as a leader in this field.
 
         The Presburger Award is given to a young scientist (in exceptional cases to several young scientists) for outstanding contributions in theoretical computer science, documented by a published paper or a series of published papers. The list of the previous recipients of the Presburger Award is available at
 
         http://eatcs.org/index.php/presburger 
 
         The Presburger Award carries a prize money of 1000 Euros and will be delivered at ICALP 2017, which will take place in Warsaw (Poland) from the 10th till the 14th of July 2017.
 
         The 2017 Presburger Award Committee consisted of  Marta Kwiatkowska (chair), Stephan Kreutzer and Jukka Suomela.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 27 Mar 17 15:51 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL part of national... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL Data Science Student...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
