 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Anthony Finkelstein awarded CBE
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL Computer Science congratulates Anthony Finkelstein, Professor of Software Systems Engineering and member of UCL's Software Systems Engineering Group, on receiving a CBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours List, announced on 11 June 2016. 
 
         Anthony's award is for services to Computer Science and Engineering; he was head of UCL Computer Science until 2010, before becoming Dean of UCL's Faculty of Engineering. In 2015 he took up a base for his research and scholarly work at The Alan Turing Institute, the UK National Institute for the Data Sciences. 
 
         Anthony is also a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, a Member of Academia Europaea and a Fellow of the City & Guilds of London Institute. He is a graduate in systems engineering holding a BEng, MSc and PhD.
 
         He has published more than 250 scientific papers and secured more than £35m of research funding. A professional Fellow of both the Institution of Engineering & Technology (IET) and the British Computer Society (BCS), Anthony has been active in both, serving on numerous Boards and Committees.
 
         He received the Oliver Lodge Medal of the IET for achievement in Information Technology, and has has been recognised for his contributions to the field of requirements engineering and for his professional service by the IEEE and the ACM. 
 
         Anthony is committed to engineering education and has organised national and international events for students. He was part of the team that established a University Technical College in East London. He now serves as a non-executive Director on the NHS board of the Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital. 
 
         The Department would like to pass on its congratulations - Anthony will be presented with his award later by the Queen or other members of the Royal Family.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 13 Jun 16 15:55 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL Engineering's... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Data science used to...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
