 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Athena SWAN Silver Award for UCL Computer Science
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL Computer Science has been awarded an Athena SWAN Silver Award. This builds on our earlier success in obtaining a bronze award in 2012. We are one of only three Computer Science Departments in the UK to have achieved a Silver Award – none have as yet been awarded Gold.
 
         The Silver Award recognises that we have gone beyond simply identifying problem areas in relation to gender inequality, but that we have been successful in implementing strategies that address these issues; and furthermore have been able to measure our progress towards our goals.
 
         The Athena SWAN Charter was established in 2005 to encourage and recognise commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine (STEMM) employment in higher education and research. 
 
         In May 2015 the charter was expanded to recognise work undertaken in arts, humanities, social sciences, business and law (AHSSBL), and in professional and support roles, and for trans staff and students. The charter now recognises work undertaken to address gender equality more broadly, and not just barriers to progression that affect women. More information about the charter can be found at http://www.ecu.ac.uk/equality-charters/athena-swan/. 
 
         John Shawe-Taylor, Head of Department, says:
 
         "I would like to thank the whole team behind our application for the very substantial amount of work that has gone into achieving this. Particular thanks are due to Caroline Wardle and Jane Butler for their leading role in the application preparation".
 
         Our current Athena SWAN team responsible for seeing through the implementation of our action plan and working towards an application for a Gold Award is being led by Ivana Drobnjak and Alexandra Silva. We will be making regular updates on how things are progressing: anyone interested in being more closely involved, please do not hesitate to contact one of the team.
 
         For more information about the team see http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/wics/home/. 
 
         Thanks go to the following team members: 
 
         Earl Barr 
 
         Jane Butler 
 
         Ivana Drobnjak 
 
         JJ Giwa- Majekodunmi 
 
         Stephen Hailes 
 
         Rae Harbird 
 
         Guy Lever 
 
         Nuray Muzaffarova 
 
         Graham Roberts 
 
         John Shawe-Taylor 
 
         Dave Twisleton 
 
         Caroline Wardle 
 
         Tim Weyrich 
 
         Manisha Verma 
 
         Anna Zaremba 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 29 Apr 16 12:31 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Dr Venus Shum featured... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Public events announced...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
