 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Bank of England & UCL working on bitcoin alternative RSCoin
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The Bank of England has partnered with UCL Computer Science to create the centrally controlled digital currency RSCoin, as reports in iT news today.
 
         The UCL researchers involved in the project, Dr Sarah Meiklejohn and Dr George Danezis, published a paper last year at the request of the Bank of England in which they presented a framework on how a central bank can maintain monetary policy over the RSCoin without sacrificing transparency. SiliconAngle explained RSCoin would use the blockchain just like bitcoin, but that the Bank of England would hold an encryption key “that could be used to control the supply of the digital currency available.” The Bank of England is interested in digital currencies for its potential.
 
         RSCoin has already been tested with 30 different computers on Amazon’s cloud computing platform.
 
         The researchers also proposed a new 2PC-based consensus mechanism and measured its performance, showing that “centralization of some authority allows for a more scalable system to prevent double spending that completely avoids the wasteful hashing required in proof-of-work-based systems.” Indeed, it seems that scalability is one of the biggest challenges facing bitcoin right now. It News compared bitcoin’s handle rate of seven transactions per second to Visa’s max rate of 7000 per second.
 
         Scalability doesn’t have to be restricted to transaction times. The researchers also explained in the paper how other central governments could potentially use their RSCoin framework to develop their own centralized digital currencies, though they caution this could lead to the same issues of “infrastructure replication” that has happened with altcoins that based their frameworks on bitcoin (“[B]ugs are replicated across codebases and compatibility across different altcoins is artificially low.”).
 
         Instead, the paper proposes that central banks use the same framework to build their digital currencies, though separate blockchains would likely be maintained.
 
         “While this allows the currencies generated by different central banks to achieve some notion of interoperability, we still expect that different blockchains will be kept separate; i.e., a particular central bank does not — and should not — have to keep track of all transactions that are denominated in the currency of another central bank. (Mintettes, however, may choose to validate transactions for any number of central banks, depending on their business interests.)”
 
         The Bank of England’s announcement follows a growing trend of central banks, including those of Australia and China, that are expressing interest in blockchain technology and introducing digital currencies.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 15 Mar 16 12:56 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Computer Science... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Staff & students star in...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
