 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› Careers 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Careers in Computer Science

        
 
         
         
        Our graduates are particularly valued as a result of the Department's international status, strong reputation for leading research, numerous links with industry and an ideal location close to the City of London. Leavers go on to secure careers in a wide variety of organisations; with global IT consultancies, as IT analysts with City banks, as IT specialists within manufacturing industries, or starting up their own companies. For more information about our Careers provision contact Steve Marchant.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Grad Stats

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
           Average salary six months after the course: £40,0000
 
           
 
           Typical salary range: £30,000.00 - £40,000.00 
 
           Average salary across the UK after taking a similar course: 
 
           £27,000.00 after six months (salary range: £22,000.00 - £30,000.00) 
 
           £35,000.00 after 40 months (salary range: £25,000.00 - £45,000.00)

          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          

          
           
            100% go on to work and/or further study 

           

          
 
          
 
          

          
           This is what students are doing six months after finishing the course.
          

          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Stats taken from Unistats: the official website for comparing UK higher education course data, see here for more on employment & accreditation.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Graduate Careers in Computer Science

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Employer Engagement

        
 
         
         
        We are always keen to develop strategic partnerships with employers to assist our students in their development while they are here as well as to enable them to progress once they have left us. To find out how to advertise jobs and internahips and take part in campus events see more information for employers.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Departmental Research Internships

        
 
         
         
        The department runs a programme of paid summer research internships to students the chance to try research in a real university setting with the department's world-leading research teams. For more information. Click here for details on how to apply and the internships currently available.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Job Online

        
 
         
         
        UCL JobOnline is an online job board where employers can post vacancies for free annd where students can browse jobs, internships, voluntary work and placements. More details about JobOnline can be found here. 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Prism HR

        
 
         
         
        Prism HR brings together students, university departments and employers to manage job postings for student and graduate opportunities. Students can complete a profile and upload a CV, and employers will see this when students submit applications. There is also a function to search for interesting opportunities. once accepted online, students will be able to see opportunities that are recommended to them. Students can sign up now. 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Faculty of Engineering Careers Service

        
 
         
         
        UCL Engineering employs three dedicated members of staff to help you with this. They organise careers events, build relationships with employers, and offer CV and interview advice specifically tailored for students in Engineering. Register with the Engineering Careers and Events page on Moodle to see opportunities as they come up. See here for UCL Engineering's Careers Pages.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL Talent Bank

        
 
         
         
        UCL Engineering has a new Jobs and Opportunities service called UCL Talent Bank. We actively source internships and other employment opportunities and present CVs to employers. We have dedicated staff looking for opportunities relevant for you. To ensure that you are automatically considered for these roles, complete your registration including your UCL department here at UCL's Talent Bank sign up.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCL Careers

        
 
         
         
        UCL Careers is part of The Careers Group, at the University of London. They provide a comprehensive ranging of careers information and guidance, in addition to running events for current UCL students, staff and GradClub members. From one-to-one coaching to employer fairs, they are here to support students at all stages of their career journey during and after their time at UCL.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Other key jobs listings

        
 
         
         
        	Inside Careers graduate vacancy search
	TARGETjobs graduate vacancy search
	Jobtop IT graduate vacancy search


        There are also Departmental and UCL wide job listings:

        	Departmental Vacancies
	Job opportunities within UCL


        The department has its own LinkedIn group where you can get involved in careers discussions with potential employers and the department's alumni. We encourage students to join and update their CV.
 
        UCL Computer Science also supports the Graduate Developer Community for undergraduates & recent graduates interested in Software Development, run by a leadership team comprising members of top technical consultancies. The Community frequently organises Meet-A-Mentor events and workshops.
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 10 Feb 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
