 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GI09 - Applied Machine Learning 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGI09 - Applied Machine Learning

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGI09 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Students should have a good command of basic mathematics including linear algebra, multivariate calculus and probability to first year undergraduate mathematics level. Students are expected to be familiar with basic machine learning concepts and will ideally have taken Supervised Learning and Graphical Models in Term 1 (or the Gatsby modules). Students are expected to be able to be competent in writing computer code, for example Python. 
 
	Term	2
	Taught By	David Barber (100%) 
	Aims	Applied Machine Learning aims to cover some of the issues that may arise in the practical application of machine learning in real-world problems. In addition, the course will cover some of the mathematics and techniques behind basic data analysis methods for both static and time-series data.

	Learning Outcomes	The ability to: assess the effectiveness of solutions presented and to question them in an intelligent way; synthesise solutions to general open-ended problems covering material from the whole programme, tempered with information on commercial reality obtained from this course. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         We will cover both large scale linear and non-linear (deep learning) aspects, discussing issues related to optimisation and scalability.  
 
 A key aspect of the module is that coursework is related to competing in online machine learning competitions (Kaggle) in small teams, with the associated mark related to how well the team does compared to the global leaderboard. Students are expected to self-learn any computational techniques that might be useful for solving such real world problems. From experience, Python and the associated libraries such as Theano and Skikitlearn have proved useful for students in applying their knowledge to solving Kaggle challenges. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated class problems.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 50%)
	Coursework Section. The coursework is based on assessed practical challenges hosted by Kaggle (50%).


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined
	Obtain a minimum mark of 50% in each component.


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         To be notified as the course progresses, according to the business themes covered.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 20 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
