 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GI07 - Programming & Mathematical Methods for Machine Learning 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGI07 - Programming & Mathematical Methods for Machine Learning

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGI07 (Also taught as: COMPM012) 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None, but student must also be enrolled in GI01
	Term	1
	Taught By	Mark Herbster (Part A,B) (50%), Massi Pontil (Part C) (50%) 
	Aims	The overall aim of this course is to introduce or refresh Matlab programming, computational complexity and linear algebra with an aim to its application to machine learning. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing the module should be able to program machine learning algorithms in matlab, analyse the complexity of algorithms, and become confident with vector/matrix computations and basic concepts of linear algebra which are important for the development of machine learning algorithms.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Part A: An introduction to Matlab for beginning programmers. 
 
         1. Matlab Interface 
 
         2. Matrix Operations 
 
         3. Control flow 
 
         4. I/O 
 
         5. Plotting 
 
         Part B: An introduction to computational complexity. 
 
         1. Three paradigms of algorithm design (greedy, divide & conquer, dynamic pro- gramming)  
 
         2. Time complexity of algorithms and problems 
 
         3. Turing machines and Decision Problems  
 
         4. Unsolvable problems  
 
         5. Intractability (NP-completeness)  
 
         Part C: Elements of linear algebra and its applications. 
 
         1. Vector and matrix operations, Orthogonality, Norms, Singular Value Decomposition (SVD). 
 
         2. Applications of SVD to Machine Learning and data analysis. Principal component analysis, Least squares and regularization, Kernel Methods. 
 
         3. Spectral graph theory
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Part A: Labs with intensive programming coursework which is oriented towards machine learning.  
 
         Part B: Lecture presentations 
 
         Part C: Lecture presentations with associated class problems. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (100%) 


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined


         
For full details see the course web page.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Introduction to the Theory of Computation 3rd Edition by Michael Sipser  
 
         Linear Algebra and Its Applications, 4th Edition by Gilbert Strang
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
