 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus ›› GC18 - Entrepreneurship: theory and Practice 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGC18 - Entrepreneurship: Theory and Practice

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGC18
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None
	Term	2
	Taught By	Philip Treleaven (CS) & David Chapman (MS&I)
	Aims	To provide students with the theory and practice necessary to launch a new business venture making maximum use of eCommerce strategies and software tools for entrepreneurs 
	Learning Outcomes	First hand experience of the selection and deployment of tools, techniques and theories for the identification, validation and structuring of a new business venture.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         This is UCL’s principal Entrepreneurship course for students seeking to develop and test a new business idea. Over the past ten years we have taught entrepreneurship to around 3000 students resulting in the launch of a number of innovative businesses. The course covers: the new business lifecycle (selecting and testing a moneymaking idea, preparing a business plan, raising finance, the Exit), aspects of new business operation (registering a company, setting up your office, understanding financial statements), and exploiting new eCommerce tools and techniques (doing business electronically, company web sites, online business software and services).
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         	Invention and innovation – finding & qualifying new opportunities. Business Model Generation.
	Confirming customer needs & testing market demand. Customer development.
	Lean Start-ups: what is your minimum viable product? The value of prototyping.
	Delivery channels and customer relationships. Business Plan & Preparing a Pitch.
	Financial Forecasting, Costing and Pricing. Management accounts. Cash-flow and Profit & loss.
	Developing sustainable competitive advantage. Intellectual Property Rights.
	Corporate form & structure. Founder dilemmas - team, equity, remuneration etc. Developing your brand.
	Defining and testing critical business model uncertainties. Measuring progress - common start-up metrics.
	Sources of Funding. Presenting to VCs.
	Class presentations. Conclusions and next-steps.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
          10 x 2-hour lectures;  
 
         10 x 1-hour New Venture Clinics; 
 
         10 x 1-hour Guest entrepreneurship lectures.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Group coursework portfolio (60%); 
	Individual coursework (40%).


         To pass this module, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all components combined.


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Blank, S. & Dorf, B. 2012. The Startup owner’s manual: The step-by-step guide for building a great company. K&S Ranch inc. 
 
         Mullins, J. 2006. The New Business Road Test. FT Prentice Hall 
 
         Osterwalder, A. et.al. 2014. Value Proposition Design. Wiley. 
 
         Ries, E. 2011. The Lean Startup: How Constant Innovation Creates Radically Successful Businesses. Portfolio Penguin
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
