 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GM99 - Individual Project (MRes CSML) 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGM99 - Individual Project (MRes CSML)

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGM99
	Year	MRes
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of core and option courses within the MRes Computational Statistics and Machine Learning
	Term	2-3 and summer
	Taught By	Various academic staff supervisors. Co-ordinator = David Barber (100%) 
	Aims	To give students experience of undertaking and completing a large piece of work, applying techniques learned throughout the programme, including the technical skills of analysis, design and implementation. 
	Learning Outcomes	To be able to: work individually developing a major project, plan and coordinate development activities, make realistic work commitments, present the work done effectively to a deadline. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Overview
There is no set syllabus: students identify their chosen project area and are allocated a supervisor who is a member of academic staff. The supervisor provides support and guidance. The project runs from immediately after the examination period (May/June) with the students responsible for organising themselves and their work, with advice from their supervisor. Students are expected to meet with their supervisor on a regular basis, as agreed with the supervisor. A typical project will comprise approximately 4 weeks of background reading, analysis and design, followed by 12 weeks of implementation and finally 4 weeks to write an in-depth dissertation.
Exceptionally a student may undertake a project that does not require programming skills. However a student undertaking such a project would be required to demonstrate an exceptionally high level of skill in the areas of analysis synthesis critical assessment and design. It is not a soft option and students are advised that such a project is typically much harder than a 'programming' project.
Some projects are done in conjunction with other departments of the College. Others are done in conjunction with external organisations although supervision is always provided within the department.

         
Project Report
The main report documents the results of the project. The deadline for submission is normally the first week of September. The project has a weighting equivalent to 4 course units so represents four twelfths of the MRes programme.
         
         
Formatting Details
The dissertation text (defined as everything except title page, table of contents, references and appendices) should typically be between 30 and 100 pages in 12 point type and 1.5 or double spacing. The total dissertation length (main text together with appendices) should under no circumstances exceed 120 pages.
         
         

          Students should place their code in an online repository and provide access details to it in their dissertation.
         
         

          Writing the dissertation is LaTeX is optional, but strongly recommended.
         
         	
	
	
           	


          

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Individual working with support from the project supervisor.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment component:

         	Reports (100 project report hours, 100%) 


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% 

 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
