 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› M076 - Virtual Environments 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM076 - Virtual Environments

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM076 (Also taught as: COMPGV07) 
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	
	Term	1
	Taught By	Anthony Steed (100%) 
 
	Aims	The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the main concepts and practical issues in constructing and understanding Virtual Environments, and how people respond to a VE experience. Given the background of the course teachers, the focus on the technical side will be more on the visual aspects of VEs. A central theme of the course will also be that the understanding of VEs can be best understood through the concepts of presence and shared presence. 
	Learning Outcomes	By the end of this course students should have an understanding of the core issues in VEs and have constructed a VE using a shared VE system. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Introduction
Virtual Environment Technology
Requirements
Applications 

Interaction
3D Interaction tasks
Tracking
Input devices
System affordances
3D Widgets 

Presence
Immersion and presence
Meaning and utility of presence
Measuring presence 

Displays
3D and Stereo Viewing
HMDs, CAVEs and desks
Graphics Architectures 

Programming Virtual Environments
Programming models
Simulation and animation
Programming for distribution ves 

Devices
Haptic devices
Sound simulation
Augmented reality 


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations, peer-led seminars, and lab-classes. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 70%)
	Coursework Section (2 pieces, 30%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
          Computer Graphics And Virtual Environments - From Realism to Real-Time. Mel Slater, Yiorgos Chrysanthou, Anthony Steed, ISBN 
 
          0201-62420-6, Addison-Wesley, 2002. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
