 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Syllabus ›› 202P - Logic and Database Theory 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP202P - Logic and Database Theory

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP202P 
	Year	2
	Prerequisites	Theory I (102P) and Theory II (104P). Students will be required to implement a program in C, so some programming experience is desirable.
	Term	1
	Taught By	Robin Hirsch (67%) 
John Dowell (33%) 
	Aims	To introduce and familiarise students with logical and mathematical inference and with database theory, the latter having an emphasis on the fundamentals of relational database systems and SQL. Students learn a number of logical inference methods for classical logics.
	Learning Outcomes	Students should understand how axiomatic systems can be used for propositional and predicate logic and they should understand the notions of soundness and completeness. They should also understand how propositional and predicate tableaus work. They should have familiarity with other logics, including modal and temporal logics. They should be able to analyse relational databases. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Propositional and Predicate logic
Review of syntax and semantics.
Deduction and Inference.
Truth tables.  
Decidability of propositional logic.

Mathematical proofs
Proof by contradiction.
Induction and structured induction.
Hilbert systems.
Axioms and inference rules for propositional logic.
Axioms and inference rules for predicate logic.
Tableau.
Tableau construction for propositional logic and predicate logic.
Soundness and completeness theorems for first order logic.
Semi-decidability of first order logic.

Finite computation methods
Finite state machines.
Regular languages.
Kleene's theorem.
Finite state machines with stacks.

Databases
1. Database management systems (DBMS) and the relational database:  essential concepts, data model, architecture and primary functions of the DBMS.
2. SQL: use of SQL as a language for database construction and data manipulation
3. Database design: a structured method for designing relational databases through data modelling, schema specification, validation and normalisation.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
          Lecture presentations with associated courseworks.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 95%);
	Coursework Section (2 pieces, 5%).


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined; 
	Obtain a minimum mark of 30% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         J. Truss, Discrete mathematics for computer scientists, Addison-Wesley, 2nd edition, 1999. 
 
          W. Hodges, Logic: an introduction to elementary logic, Penguin, 1977. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
