 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› MSc Financial Risk Management ›› G013 - Market Microstructure 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPG013 - Market Microstructure

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPG013
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None

	Term	2
	Taught By	Julius Bonart

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         This course provides the student with a structured overview over both the main empirical facts and major theoretical approaches in market microstructure. It will comprise of five main parts: 
 
         1) An introduction to limit order markets. 
 
         The course explains the functioning and historical context of limit order driven markets and introduces the main concepts as well as regulatory issues. 
 
         2) Empirical investigation of financial data. 
 
         The course covers the main robust empirical facts found in order driven financial markets, such as the distribution of returns, correlations between price changes and the volatility, the intraday pattern of liquidity and the bid-ask spread, and the long memory of the trade sign process. Simple models for the correlated sign process are discussed.  
 
         3) Price impact. 
 
         This part focuses on the impact of order book events (market order submissions, limit order submissions, and cancellations) on the market price. Different price impact measures are introduced. The theoretical framework for trade sign correlations, impact and price efficiency is discussed. The impact of a trading strategy (meta-order) is introduced and different theories of meta-order impact are presented. 
 
         4) The limit order book as a queuing system. 
 
         This part introduces zero-intelligence models to describe the high-frequency fluctuations in financial markets. The so-called Santa Fe model, the Cont&Larrard model and more complex approaches are discussed. 
 
         5) The relationship between impact, the bid-ask spread, the tick size, and liquidity. 
 
         This part of the focus introduces regulatory issues related to limit order books. The most advanced theories which explain the relationship between the spread and impact on small-tick stocks, as well as the liquidity and impact on large-tick stocks, are presented. The course closes with a discussion on the optimal market design.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         The main channels of teaching are the lectures and class work. The students will be assigned exercises for homework. The teaching material will be provided.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         Written exam (70%) 
 
         Coursework (30%)
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Bibliography
 
         Monographs
 
         J.-P. Bouchaud & M. Potters, “Theory of Financial Risk and Derivative Pricing", Cambridge 
 
         Universiry Press 2009. 
 
         C.-A. Lehalle & S. Laruelle, “Market Microstructure in Practice", World Scientic 2013. 
 
         Research Articles for Further Reading
 
         Rama Cont, “Empirical properties of asset returns: stylized facts and statistical issues", Quantitative Finance, 1, 223-236 (2001) 
 
         L. R. Glosten & P. R. Milgrom, “Bid, ask and transaction prices in a specialist market with heterogeneously informed traders", Journal of Financial Economics, 14, 71-100 (1985) 
 
         J.-P. Bouchaud, J. D. Farmer, F. Lillo, “How markets slowly digest changes in supply and demand", http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0822 (2009)
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
