 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GV16 - Research Methods and Reading 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGV16 - Research Methods and Reading

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	 COMPGV16 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	
	Term	2
	Taught By	Tim Weyrich (100%) 
	Aims	To introduce students to research methods and guide them through writing a critical literature review of their chosen area. 
	Learning Outcomes	To understand the components of a scientific paper. To understand scientific methods and associated issues (statistics, ethics etc). To be able to review and criticise the scienntific literature in an area. To be able to verbally present a critical review of a particular area in a concise organised form.. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Basic research methods
Scientific method
Ethics
Statistics and hypothesis testing
The structure of a scientific paper
Presentation issues 
 
         Literature review
Write and present a literature review associated with the summer project
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures with associated practical classes. 5 personal meetings with project supervisors.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Literature Review (60%)
	Presentation (20%)
	Coursework 1 (10%)
	Coursework 2 (10%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Module home page 
 
         (NB This link currently points to the 2012/13 version)
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
