 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› 3004 - Computational Complexity 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3004 - Computational Complexity

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP3004 
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	1002, 1004 and 2008 
	Term	1
	Taught By	Mark Herbster (50%) 
Robin Hirsch (50%) 
	Aims	To address the theoretical and practical limitations of computation. To provide a theoretical framework for modelling computation. The concepts of undecidability and intractability are introduced through a number of examples. The course will convey the proof techniques that are used to classify problems and it is intended that students learn how to apply them in order to classify unfamiliar problems for themselves. 
	Learning Outcomes	To be able to: analyse the complexity of a variety of problems and algorithms; reduce one problem to another; prove that a problem is undecidable; find a polynomial time reduction from one problem to another; determine the complexity class of a decidable problem; categorise the complexity of a language. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Models of Computation
Deterministic Turing machines.
Equivalent Turing machines.
 Register machines. 
 
         Languages
Language recognition.
 Language acceptance.
 Recursive languages.
 Recursively enumerable languages. 
 
         Undecidability
The Halting Problem.
 Problem reduction.
 Undecidability of the tiling problem.
 Undecidability of first-order logic.
 Other unsolvable problems. 
 
         Non-determinism
Non-deterministic Turing machines.
Polynomial-time reduction.
Elementary properties of polynomial time reduction.
The complexity classes P, NP, NP-complete. 
 Cook's theorem. 
 How to prove NP-hardness of various problems.

Probabilistic Algorithms
Examples of probabilistic algorithms.
 How to make 'almost sure' your algorithm is correct.
Complexity analysis of probabilistic algorithms.
The complexity classes PP and BPP.

Other Complexity Classes
Space complexity.
Savitch’s theorem.
Exponential time.
Non-elementary problems.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated courseworks.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 95%);
	Coursework Section (2 pieces, 5%).


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 30% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         M.R. Garey and D.S. Johnson, Computers and Intractability, A Guide to
 
          the Theory of NP-Completeness, Freeman 1986. 
 
         V.J. Rayward-Smith: A first Course in Computability, Blackwell
 
          Scientific Publications, 1986.
 
          H. Lewis and C. Papadimitriou: Elements of the
 
          Theory of Computation, Prentice Hall, 1998.
 
          J Hopcroft and J Ullman: Introduction to automata theory, languages, and computation, Addison-Wesley, 1979. 
 
         Michael Sipser: Introduction to the Theory of Computation
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
