 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GZ03 - Distributed Systems and Security 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGZ03 - Distributed Systems and Security

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGZ03 (Also taught as: COMPM030) 
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	good understanding of object-oriented programming and design and networking protocols
	Term	1
	Taught By	Brad Karp (100%) 
	Aims	The first half of the class explores the design and implementation of distributed systems in case-study fashion: students read classic and recent research papers describing ambitious distributed systems. In lecture, students critically discuss the principles that cause these systems to function correctly, the exten to which these systems solve the problem articulated by the authors and the extent to which the problem and solution chosen by the quthors are relevant in practice. The second half of the class explores computer system security, again, largely in case-study fashion.
	Learning Outcomes	Correctness under concurrency is a central challenge in distributed systems and one that can only fully be understood through experience of building such systems (and encountering subtle bugs n them). To give students experience of this sort, the module includes one significant programming coursework in C, in which the students implement a simple distributed system that must provide an ordering guarantee. Further written coursework helps students solidify their understanding of the security material in the class.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         

         Course introduction; OS concepts 
 
         Design: Worse is Better; Concurrent IO; RPC & Transparency 
 
         Ivy: Distributed Shared Memory 
 
         Bayou: Weak Connectivity and Update Conflicts; GFS: The Google File System 
 
         RouteBricks: Cluster-Based IP Router; Introduction to Security; User Authentification 
 
         Cryptographic Primitives I; Cryptographic Primitives II; 
 
         Secure Sockets Layer (SSL); Reasoning Formally about Authentification : TAOS 
 
         Software Vulnerabilities and Expoits; Preventing Exploits 
 
         Containing Buggy Code: Software-based Fault Isolation; OKWS: Approximating Least Privilege in a Real-World Web Server

         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures, case-studies
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 70%)
	Coursework Section (30%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture notes (Brad Karp) 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
