 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GC16 - Functional Programming 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGC16 - Functional Programming

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         

         	Code	COMPGC16 (Also taught as: COMP3011) 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	n/a
	Term	2
	Taught By	Chris Clack (100%) 
	Aims	This course explores the functional programming paradigm and the implementation technology for functional programming languages. It aims to develop a broad understanding of the functional programming style and recursive programming techniques using the language Miranda, together with an understanding of implementation issues that are relevant not only to functional languages but also to other systems that require automatic dynamic memory management.

	Learning Outcomes	To be able to: understand the basics of the lambda calculus and combinators and how they are used in the implementation of functional languages; understand the main features of a lazy functional language; write non-trivial functional programs; understand the computation and memory management issues affecting the sequential implementation of lazy functional languages; read and understand the research and technical literature on functional programming.


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Context 
Classification of Programming Languages 
Distinctive Features of Functional Programming Languages 
Differences between Haskell and Miranda 
 
         The Lambda Calculus and Combinators 
Versions of the Lambda Calculus - syntax and semantics 
Reduction orders, strong normalisation 
Combinators - computationally complete sets 
 
         Types 
A brief introduction to Hindley-Milner type inference 
 
         Miranda 
Programming Environment 
Types 
Recursion 
Pattern-Matching 
Lists 
Higher-Order Functions 
User-Defined Types 
Recursive Programming Techniques 
 
         Introduction to Implementation Techniques 
Strict Evaluation and the SECD Machine 
Lazy Evaluation and Graph Reduction 
The Need for Automatic Memory Management 
 
         Automatic Memory Management 
Memory Allocation and Garbage Collection 
Garbage Collection Techniques
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 95%);
	Coursework Section (1 piece, 5%). 


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all components combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         A full list of resources is available on the Moodle site for this module. 
 
         Programming with Miranda, Clack, Myers and Poon, Prentice-Hall 1994 ISBN 0-13-192592-X. 
 
         The Implementation of Functional Programming Languages, Peyton-Jones, Prentice-Hall 1986 
 
         Garbage Collection: Algorithms for Automatic Dynamic Memory Management, Jones and Lins, Wiley 1996 ISBN 0 471 94148 4 
 
         Research Directions in Parallel Functional Programming, Hammond and Michaelson (Eds.), Springer, ISBN 1-85233-092-9, 1999 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
