 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› 310P - Web Development 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP310P - Web Development

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP310P 
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	Introduction to Programming (COMP210P)
	Term	1
	Taught By	Rae Harbird (100%) 
 
	Aims	This is a course for students with some prior experience of programming. The primary objective of the course is for the students to gain practical experience with “full-stack” web development. Students will explore the architecture of web applications and the technologies that are used in the three main components: client, server and data store. 
The students will gain experience via hands-on engagement on a weekly basis.
Each week, or stage, serves as a checkpoint that progress is being made.
Students will undertake a substantial project in which they will work in pairs or teams of three to design, develop and deploy a web application of large enough size to be challenging. Support with development in the labs I tutorials will be provided after Reading Week so that at no point is this task too open-ended.
Secondary goals are for the students to gain further experience with computational thinking: to be able to identify problems that they could solve using programming and web technologies and to apply the skills they have learned in this course. They will gain further experience of working in teams.
 
	Learning Outcomes	
             	Understand the architecture of web applications and the internet technologies that underpin clicking on a link and fetching a web page.  
	Using a structured language to describe web pages with HTML5, CSS3. Using JSON as a data interchange format.  
	Using appropriate programming languages for the application logic in the browser and on the server.  
	Using database technologies to store persistent data for a web application.  
	Using tools for version control and deployment.  
	These are skills that can only be learned through doing. The intended learning outcome is that the students become adept at applying these skills. 



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The expected task outline is as follows. The content may be varied according to the progress made by the students. The length of the course will depend upon the structure of the degree. At the moment. students taking the IEP have two scenario weeks in each term and modules are eight weeks in duration instead of ten. The content will be curtailed according to the number of weeks available.  
 
         Week 1: Introduction to the World Wide Web: what happens when you click on a link? The architecture of web applications including 3-tier and Model, View, Controller designs. First tasks including setting up a web server and writing first web page. 
 
         Week 2: Introduction to HTML5 and styling web pages with C883. The Document Object Model and how web pages are represented as tree diagrams. 
 
         Week 3: Making web pages more interactive with JavaScript and the jQuery library. 
 
         Week 4: Transferring data between client and server with JSON and AJAX. 
 
         Week 5: Software as a Service: writing RESTful web services. The concepts will be illustrated with an appropriate server-side programming language for example: Java Server Faces or node.js. 
 
         Week 6: Reading week: no labs or lectures. 
 
         Week 7: RESTful web services (continued). Version control with git and github. Deploying a web server on a cloud platform. 
 
         Weeks 8 & 9: The data store: using a database to store persistent data, NoSQL vs SQL comparison. An appropriate database technology will be chosen for practical examples. 
 
         Week 10: Web analytics.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
          There will be a strong emphasis on the tutorials/labs. Students will have a two-hour lab session every week which will be staffed by TAs. Each topic has a specific problem set that must be completed. A problem set will be introduced with a short video illustrating the set, and a set of lab notes explaining what is expected and providing sufficient information to attempt the task. The videos and lab notes will be available via Moodle in advance. and the students should have reviewed them before attending the labs and, ideally, to have started to solve the problems. During the lab sessions the students will demonstrate briefly to the TA what tasks have been achieved. Tasks are binary marked.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         Coursework and in class test (total 100%)
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Bibliography
 
         Please note: the resources noted here are indicative and may be changed to keep up with the latest 
 
         developments in the area. 
 
         1. Castro, E. and Hyslop, B., 2013. HTML and 088: Visual Quickstart Guide. Pearson Education. 
 
         2. Fain. Y., Rasputnis. V., Tarlakovsky. A. and Gamov. V., 2014. Enterprise Web Development: Building HTML5 Applications: From Desktop to Mobile. O'Reilly Media, Inc. 
 
         3. Freeman. ET. and Robson, E., 2014. Head First JavaScript Programming. O'Reilly Media, Inc. 
 
         4. Hogan, B.P., Warren, G, Weber, M., Johnson, C. and Godin, A., 2012. Web Development Recipes. 
 
         Pragmatic Bookshelf. 
 
         5. Lynda.com, (2016). PHP with MySQL Essential Training. [video] Available at: http://www.lynda.com/MySQL-tutorials/PHP-MySQL-EssentiaI-Training/119003-2.html [Accessed 13 Feb. 2016]. 
 
         6. Lynda.com, (2016). Javascript and AJAX. [video] Available at: http://www.lynda.com/Developer-tutorials/JavaScript-and-AJAX/114900-2.html?org=ucl.ac.uk [Accessed 13 Feb. 2016]. 
 
         7. Nixon, FL, 2014. Learning PHP, MySOL, JavaScript, CSS & HTML5: A Step-by-Step Guide to Creating Dynamic Websites. O'Reilly Media, Inc. 
 
         8. Patel. S.K., 2014. Developing Responsive Web Applications with AJAX and JOuery. Packt Publishing 
 
         Ltd. 
 
         9. Sullivan, D., 2015. NoSOL for Mere Mortals. Addison-Wesley Professional. 
 
         10. Wellens, P., 2015. Practical web development. Packt Publishing, Inc.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
