 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GI15 - Information Retrieval & Data Mining 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGI15 - Information Retrieval & Data Mining

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s). 
 
         	Code	COMPGI15 (Also taught as: COMPM052) 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Normally offered only to students in computer science related programmes because basic programming skills are required. Basic understanding of probability and statistics and proficient in java programming, as demonstrated by a least one programing project in the past.
	Term	2
	Taught By	Jun Wang (50%), Emine Yilmaz (50%) 
	Aims	The course is aimed at an entry level study of information retrieval and data mining techniques. It is about how to find relevant information and subsequently extract meaningful patterns out of it. While the basic theories and mathematical models of information retrieval and data mining are covered, the course is primarily focused on practical algorithms of textual document indexing, relevance ranking, web usage mining, text analytics, as well as their performance evaluations. Practical retrieval and data mining applications such as web search engines, personalisation and recommender systems, business intelligence, and fraud detection will also be covered. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students are expected to master both the theoretical and practical aspects of information retrieval and data mining. At the end of the course student are expected to understand 1. The common algorithms and techniques for information retrieval (document indexing and retrieval, query processing, etc). 2. The quantitative evaluation methods for the IR systems and data mining techniques. 3. The popular probabilistic retrieval methods and ranking principles. 4. The techniques and algorithms existing in practical retrieval and data mining systems such as those in web search engines and recommender systems, including the recently popular topic of deep learning. 5. The challenges and existing techniques for the emerging topics of MapReduce, portfolio retrieval and deep learning. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Overview of the fields
Study some basic concepts of information retrieval and data mining, such as the concept of relevance, association rules, and knowledge discovery. Understand the conceptual models of an information retrieval and knowledge discovery system.
 
Indexing 
Introduce various indexing techniques for textual information items, such as inverted indices, tokenization, stemming and stop words.

Retrieval Methods
Study popular retrieval models: 1 Boolean, 2. Vector space, 3 Binary independence, 4 Language modelling. Probability ranking principle. Other commonly-used techniques include relevance feedback, pseudo relevance feedback, and query expansion. 
Evaluation of Retrieval Performance 
 
         Measurements
Average precision, NDCG, etc. "Cranfield paradigm" and TREC conferences.
Personalisation and Usage Mining
Study basic techniques for collaborative filtering and recommender systems, such as the memory-based approaches, probabilistic latent semantic analysis (PLSA), personalized web search through click-through data. 
 
          
Data Mining
Study basic techniques, algorithms, and systems of data mining and analytics, including frequentpattern and correlation and association analysis, anomaly detection, and click-through modelling.
 
Emerging Areas
MapReduce and Sparck; Learning to Rank; Portfolio retrieval and Risk Management; Deep Learning
 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations, Practical exercises
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         	Written Examination (2.5 hours, 60%)
	Coursework (40%)

 
         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Introduction to Information Retrieval, Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan and Hinrich Schütze, Cambridge University Press. 2008.  
 
         Introduction to Data Mining, Pang-Ning Tan, Michael Steinbach and Vipin Kumar, Addison-Wesley, 2006 
 
         Gigabytes (2nd Ed.) Ian H. Witten, Alistair Moffat and Timothy C. Bell. (1999), Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, 
 
         California. 
 
         Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Christopher M. Bishop, Springer (2006).
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
