 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         Computer Science student wins WCIT Bronze Award
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The City of London has a long association with the trade organisations, known as liveries, operating within its boundaries. London's livery companies offer a community to their members and are involved in charitable-giving, training and networking opportunities. The livery for computing professionals has the rather grand title of the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists (WCIT). WCIT offers an annual prize for students in the capital and this year Vicky Dineshchandra, a 3rd year Computer Science undergraduate, has won the Bronze award.
 
         Vicky was nominated by the Computer Science department in recognition of the initiatives he introduced in 2015-16 when he was Vice-President of Projects for UCLU Technology Society (TechSoc). In this role he acted as a transition mentor, helping first year undergraduates settle in to their new environment. He also encouraged his fellow students to volunteer for the wide variety of educational events run by TechSoc. One of the biggest successes of the year was HackStart, a day of activities to inspire 14-17 year olds to take a deeper interest in Computer Science through workshops, demos and tech talks; HackStart is now an annual event in the TechSoc calendar.
 
         Vicky fostered an expansion in TechSoc membership numbers by supporting a wide variety of tech-focussed events, hackathons and student-led projects to help develop a cohesive tech community. With increased participation, he was able to co-found the TechSoc Volunteering Crew, (TVC), which now has over 110 members. Vicky produced promotional films showcasing some of the educational materials produced by the UCL Computer Science students and student life here at the Department of Computer Science. 
 
         Vicky wants to make it clear that none of these things would have been possible without the support and friendship of fellow TechSoc committee members and colleagues, pictured above.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 08 Feb 17 11:46 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Meet UCL's Haskelly team >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Research explores...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
