 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› M055 - Supervised Learning 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM055- Supervised Learning

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM055 (Also taught as: COMPGI01 Supervised Learning)
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	Basic mathematics, Calculus, Probability, Linear algebra 
	Term	1
	Taught By	Mark Herbster (50%), John Shawe-Taylor (30%), Massi Pontil (20%)
	Aims	This module covers supervised approaches to machine learning. 
	Learning Outcomes	Gain in-depth familiarity with various classical and contemporary supervised learning algorithms, understand the underlying limitations and principles that govern learning algorithms and ways of assessing and improving their performance. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The course consists of both foundational topics for supervised learning such as Linear Regression, Nearest Neighbors and Kernelisation as well contemporary research areas such as multi-task learning and optimisation via proximal methods.  In a given year topics will be drawn non-exclusively from the following.

         	Nearest Neighbors
	Linear Regression
	Kernels and Regularisation
	Support Vector Machines
	Gaussian Processes
	Decision Trees
	Ensemble Learning
	Sparsity Methods 
	Multi-task Learning
	Proximal Methods
	Semi-supervised Learning
	Neural Networks
	Matrix Factorization 
	Online Learning
	Statistical Learning Theory

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated class problems
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 75%)
	Coursework Section (25%)

To pass this course, students must:


         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.


         
For full details of coursework see the course web page.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Text Book 1: The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference and Prediction, Hastie.T., Tibshirani.R., and Friedman.J., Springer [2001]
Reference Book 1: Pattern Classification, Duda.R.O., Hart.P.E., and Stork.D.G., John Wiley and Sons (2001) 
Reference Book 2: Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Bishop, Christopher M., Springer (2006)
Reference Book 3: An Introduction to Support Vector Machines, Shawe-Taylor J. and Cristianini N., Cambridge University Press (2000)
Reference Book 4: Kernel Methods for Pattern Analysis, Shawe-Taylor.J, and Cristianini N., Cambridge University Press (2004) 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
