 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› MSc Financial Risk Management ›› G012 - Financial Engineering 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPG012 - Financial Engineering

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPG012
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Basic probability and differential equations

	Term	1
	Taught By	Riaz Ahmad (100%)
	Aims	An introduction to the applied mathematical and computational aspects of Quantitative Finance.

	Learning Outcomes	Successful application of the necessary probability and differential equation based approach to the pricing of financial derivatives; using both quantitative and numerical techniques.
 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         1. Financial Products and Markets: Time value of money and applications. Equities, indices, foreign exchange and commodities. Futures, Forwards and Options. Payoff and P&L diagrams. Put-Call parity. 
 
         2. Stochastic Calculus: Brownian motion and properties, Itô’s lemma and Itô integral. Stochastic Differential Equations – drift and diffusion; Geometric Brownian Motion and Vasicek model. 
 
         3. Binomial model: Key assumptions. Delta hedging and no arbitrage. Risk-neutral probability and replicating portfolio. Single step and multi-period model. European and American options. 
 
         4. Black-Scholes Model: Assumptions, PDE and pricing formulae for European calls and puts. Extending to dividends, FX and commodities. The Greeks and risk management - theta, delta, gamma, vega & rho and their role in hedging. Two factor models and multi-asset options. 
 
         5. Mathematics of early exercise: Perpetual American calls and puts; optimal exercise strategy and the smooth pasting condition. 
 
         6. Computational Finance: Solving the pricing PDEs numerically using Explicit Finite Difference Scheme. 
 
         Stability criteria. Introduction to Monte Carlo technique for derivative pricing. Random number generation in Excel – RAND(), NORMSINV(), simulating random walks, correlations. Examining statistical properties of stock returns. 
 
         7. Stochastic interest rate models: Fixed income world – zero coupon bonds and coupon bearing bonds; yield curves, duration and convexity. Bond Pricing Equation (BPE). Popular models for the spot rate - Vasicek, CIR, Ho & Lee and Hull & White. Solutions of the BPE. 
 
         8. Introduction to Exotics: Basic features and classification of exotic options. Simple exotics – Binaries, one-touch, power options, compound and exchange options. Weak and strong path dependency - barriers, Asians and Lookbacks. Sampling - continuous and discrete. Pricing using the PDE framework.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         30 hours of lectures including 3 hours of computing sessions
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         • Assessed assignments (30%) 
 
         • 2.5 hour written examination in the summer (70%) 
 
         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         • Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Recommended Book 
 
         • Paul Wilmott, Paul Wilmott Introduces Quantitative Finance, John Wiley & Sons, 2007 
 
         Notes 
 
         • CFA Level 1 Quants (slide pack), Fitch Learning
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
