 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GV01 - Mathematical Methods Algorithms and Implementations 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGV01 - Mathematical Methods Algorithms and Implementations

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGV01 (Also taught as: COMPM072) 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	N/A
	Term	1
	Taught By	Dan Stoyanov (100%)
	Aims	To provide a rigorous mathematical approach: in particular to define standard notations for consistent usage in other modules. To present relevant theories and results. To develop algorithmic approach from mathematical formulation through to hardware implications. 
	Learning Outcomes	To understand analytical and numerical methods for image processing, graphics and image reconstruction. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Linear Algebra via Geometry
Vectors and matrices; Eigenvalues; Kernel spaces; Singular value decomposition; Coordinate systems, lines, planes, rotation and translation. 
 
         Probability and Estimation
Forward probability; Common probability distributions; Monte Carlo sampling; Moments; Inverse probability; Bayes Theorem; Maximum likelihood estimation. 
 
         Calculus
Ordinary differential equations (complementary functions and particular integrals); Partial differential equations (separation of variables);Vector and matrix calculus. 
 
         Fourier Transforms
Calculating Fourier series and transforms; Discrete and Fast Fourier Transforms. 
 
         Basic Algorithms and Optimization
Dynamic programming; Gradient Descent; Gauss-Newton.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated class coursework and laboratory sessions. There are 4 pieces of coursework, all equally weighted.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Written Examination (2.5 hours, 75%)
	Coursework Section (4 pieces of individual submission, 25%) 


          To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.


         
Note that Coursework 1 is due in Week 3, Coursework 2 is due in Week 6, Coursework 3 is due in Week 9 and Coursework 4 is due start of Term 2.

The examination rubric is: answer THREE questions out of FIVE. All questions carry equal marks.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Numerical Recipes in C, W.H.Press et.al., Cambridge University Press 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
