 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GC04 - Systems Infrastructure 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGC04 - Systems Infrastructure

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGC04 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	This course should be taken in conjunction with the core courses for this programme (ie GC01, GC02, GC03 and GC05)
	Term	1
	Taught By	John Dowell (50%), David Clark (25%), Rae Harbird  (25%)
	Aims	This course is an amalgam of three different aspects of systems design and construction - operating systems, compilers and databases - each having approximately equal weight. The course is a fundamental one in the programme as a whole, in the sense that it introduces material that is built on elsewhere and, consequently, much of the material will be aimed at providing a basic understanding of the role that different systems components play within real computer systems, and how they go about achieving this. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students should be able to describe and discuss the fundamentals of systems infrastructure outlined below and their interrelationships and interdependencies with other aspects drawn from the core MSc curriculum. They should be able to discriminate between different possible solutions to practical problems and, consequently, apply the knowledge gained in a practical way. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         A historical perspective
A brief history of operating systems, compilers and databases; milestones in their development and changes driven by changes in both use and in the underlying hardware 
 
         Process creation and management
The virtual machine concept; data structures needed by operating systems
Process state transition
Scheduling algorithms and metrics for the analysis of performance 
 
         Memory management
Virtual memory
Single and multi-level paging algorithms
Caching 
 
         Concurrency control
Race conditions
Semaphores
Deadlock 
 
         Compilation vs. interpretation 
 
         Lexical analysis 
 
         Parsing
Recursive descent
Table-driven techniques 
 
         Code generation
This will only be a brief overview to introduce the subject:
1. Database management systems (DBMS) and the relational database:essential concepts, data model, architecture and and primary functions of the DBMS.
2. SQL: use of SQL as a language for database construction and data manipulation.
3. Database design: a structured method for designing relational databases through data modelling, schema specification, validation and normalisation.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated class problems.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework Section (3 pieces, 15%)
	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 85%)


         To pass this course, students must: 

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
