 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional) ›› COMPM086 - Introduction to Logic, Semantics, and Verification 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM086 - Introduction to Logic, Semantics, and Verification

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM086 (Also taught as COMPGL01)
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Students must be familiar with basic probability and statistics concepts. They must also have some familiarity with mathematical analysis.
	Term	1
	Taught By	Alexandra Silva (100%)
	Aims	The module aims to familiarize students with formal methods for reasoning about transition systems and programs.
	Learning Outcomes	Students will be able to acquire a sound understanding of various algebras and logics and their application in program reasoning.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         Part I: Logic basics

         	Classical propositional & predicate logic.
	Basic Modal Logic: Kripke frames, Axioms, tableaus.
	Multimodal logic, Propositional Dynamic Logic.


         Part II: Kleene algebra and applications

         	Kleene algebra: basic definitions and semantics.
	Kleene algebra with tests (KAT).
	Program analysis using KAT.


         Part III: Formal semantics of programming languages

         	Different approaches to formal semantics: operational, denotational and axiomatic semantics.
	Proofs by induction on derivations and structure.
	Semantics of programs with computational effects and interaction with the environment (overview).


         Part IV: Intro to Separation Logic

         	Logical foundations of separation logic.
	Inductive definitions.
	Bunched logic/substructural logic.


          Part V: Verification

         	Owicki-Gries and Rely/Guarantee methods.
	Hoare logics and type theory.
	Interactive theorem proving.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         3 hours of lectures per week and 5 hours of problem classes across the term.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (100%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Recommended texts
Chellas, B.F., 1980. Modal Logic: an introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press 
 
         Further books and other resources will be indicated during the course.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
