 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› M080 - Acquisition and Processing of 3D Geometry 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM080 - Acquisition and Processing of 3D Geometry

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code 	COMPM080 (also taught as COMPGV18)
	Year 	Masters
	Prerequisite	None
	Term 	2
	Taught By 	Niloy Mitra (100%) 
	Aims 	To expose students to the challenges and potential of geometry processing in relevant application areas. To explain how to use acquire 3D model, and subsequently process, analyze, and manipulate the data.  
 To familiarize students with handling real data sets. 
	Learning Outcomes 	 Students successfully completing the module should be able to:

             	Read and understand recent advancements in this area. (theory)
	Have a grasp of the key tools in geometry processing. (theory)
	Gain necessary practical skills to work directly with real-world 3D data. (practice)
	Be able to formulate and solve problem using the geometric tools they learn as part of the module. (practice)



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The course introduces basics of geometry processing covering important aspects of acquisition, analysis, and manipulation of 3D data. The course will consist of a mix of theory and applications to real-world scenarios. 
 
         The course intends to introduce students to the various stages of a typical geometry processing pipeline. With recent growth in popularity of 3D acquisition devices and modelling frameworks, geometry processing is increasing becoming important in a diverse set of applications including city planning, architectural geometry, reverse engineering, interactive modelling, etc. 
 
         Topics will include but not restricted to mesh representations, mesh smoothing, remeshing, mesh reconstruction, and shape analysis. Necessary topics in differential geometry will be covered in the course.

Introduction
1. Applications
2. Surface representations

Geometry Registration
 1. Local and global registration (ICP, branch-and-bound)

Geometry Acquisition
1. 3D acquisition using laser scanners
2. Structure from motion based acquisition

Differential Geometry
1. Introduction to curves and surface

Mesh Smoothing and Decimation 

Parametrization and Remeshing

Mesh Deformation 

Laplace Beltrami Operator

Shape Analysis

Shape Synthesis 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures and lab classes. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (50%)
	Individual / Group Project (40%)
	Oral Examination (10%)


         To pass this course, students must:
 

         	Achieve a mark of 50% or more from all sections combined
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Polygon Mesh Processing  Mario Botsch, Leif Kobbelt, Mark Pauly, Pierre Alliez, Bruno Levy, A. K. Peters, ISBN: 1568814267
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
