 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         CoMPLEX PhD student wins Postgraduate Taught Prize
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Chris Banerji, CoMPLEX PhD student with UCL-CS and the Cancer Institute has won the Faculty Postgraduate Taught Prize for 2012. The prize was awarded to Chris for his impressive work in his MRes in Modelling Biological Complexity during the last academic session. 
 
         Director of CoMPLEX, Dr Guy Moss, observed that:“Chris Banerji is, simply put, a totally exceptional student. Chris came to us having received a 1st Class MMath degree from Oxford. In his three short projects during the MRes year he averaged a mark of 91%, never falling below 88% from any marker. He then went on to attain a summer project mark of 93%. In a programme where marks of 80% or above are very rare, these high marks single him out as having put together a set of truly brilliant performances. Indeed, from his MRes work he has almost enough material for two full papers and has already prepared one of these!”. 
 
         In his response to being awarded the prize, Chris stated: ‘Given the very high calibre of research within the MAPS faculty, it is both a great honour and quite a surprise to find myself in receipt of this prize. One of the great joys of working in a field such as mathematical biology comes from its focus on collaboration, thus I cannot take all the credit for the work produced in my MRes and must thank (among others) Simone Severini, Andrew Teschendorff, Peter Zammit and Richard Orrell for all their support Our work last year shone a light on the most prevalent skeletal myopathy (FSHD). We are now beginning to utilise this new knowledge in the lab; with luck we may one day see the first therapies for FSHD”.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 25 Apr 13 09:07 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Undergraduate 2nd Year... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL FIndS organises City...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
