 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus Index 2017-2018 (Provisional)
      ›› COMPGL ›› COMPGL03 - Program Verification and Automated Reasoning 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGL03 - Program Verification and Automated Reasoning

       This database contains the 2017-18 versions of syllabuses. These are still being finalised and changes may occur before the start of the session.

       Syllabuses from the 2016-17 session are available here.

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGL03
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	COMPGL02
	Term	2
	Taught By	James Brotherston (100%)
	Aims	The module aims to familiarize students with the concepts and techniques currently used by state of the art automated theorem provers and program analysers.
	Learning Outcomes	Students will learn the theoretical foundations of automated reasoning, and be able to develop them in applications for program analysis and verification.
 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         This course introduces various formal methods of reasoning about transition systems and programs. The course covers Modal, Temporal and Program Logics as well as algebras of transition systems. Students are taught how to establish complexity bounds on programs and transition systems. 
 
         Part I: Automated theorem proving

         	Instantiation based methods
	First-order resolution with unification
	DPLL based methods
	Term rewriting


         Part II: Program analysis and verification

         	Model checking
	Symbolic execution
	Hoare logic
	Abstract interpretation
	Separation logic

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         3 hours of lectures per week and 5 hours of problem classes throughout the term.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (10%)
	Written examination (2.5 hours, 90%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.
	Obtain a pass mark of 50% in the written examination.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Recommended texts
 Robinson, J.A. and Voronkov, A. eds, 2001. Handbook of Automated Reasoning. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 
 Loeckx, J. and Sieber, K. 1987. The Foundations of program verification. Chichester: Wiley. 
 Almeida, J.B., Frade, M.J., Pinto, J.S. and Melo de Sousa, S., 2011. Rigorous Software Development. London: Springer-Verlag London. 
 
         Further books and other resources will be indicated during the course.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 04 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
