 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› M065 - Computer Security 2 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM065 - Computer Security 2

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM065 (Also taught as COMPGA02)
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	Computer Security I or equivalent introduction to security course highly recommended
	Term	2
	Taught By	Emiliano De Cristofaro (50%) and Gianluca Stringhini (50%)
	Aims	Providing an advanced understanding of network and computer security vulnerabilities and countermeasures in real-world systems.
	Learning Outcomes	Students will learn how to think critically and creatively about security. They will learn how, when and why to apply security technologies for the most benefit. Students will be challenged with the study and the design of attacks and defences to networks, systems, and software. 


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Network protocols and vulnerabilities; Network defenses; Network Security tools; Firewalls, Intrusion & Anomaly Detection, Anti-virus protection; Software and system security: threats, vulnerabilities, and countermeasures via real-world examples; Malware and botnets;  Wireless Security; Denial of Service; Web Security 
 
         Slides from 2014/2015 are available at: compsec2.cs.ucl.ac.uk
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations and laboratory sessions with associated coursework
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 70%)
	Coursework (30%) 


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Dieter Gollmann, "Computer Security" (3rd edition).
Ross Anderson, “Security Engineering”.
William Stallings, “Cryptography and Network Security”. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
