 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› MSc Financial Risk Management ›› G008 - Stochastic Processes for Finance 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPG008 - Stochastic Processes for Finance

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPG008
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Calculus, Basic Probability

	Term	1
	Taught By	Guido Germano (100%)

	Aims	Rehearse/survey probability theory and give a systematic introduction to stochastic processes and their applications without stressing too much the measure-theoretical aspects and other mathematical formalisms. The main target are students with an undergraduate degree in engineering, physics, computer science and the like, who have a good basis in calculus and have already come into contact with aspects of probability and statistics for ad hoc applications like transport equations, laboratory data treatment, and quantum mechanics, but have not attended yet a dedicated course on stochastic processes. The course material will unfold with references to its historical development and early applications in physics/engineering the students may already heard of, ending with current-day applications in finance.

	Learning Outcomes	Familiarity with probability theory, stochastic processes in discrete and continuous time, stochastic calculus, and basic applications in physics/engineering and, mainly, in finance.


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         1. Probability Theory - a Survey (3 or 4 weeks) 
 
         Definitions, Kolmogorov's axioms
 Joint and conditional probabilities, Bayes' theorem
 Probability distribution and density functions
 Multivariate and marginal distributions
 Mean, variance, covariance, correlation, moments, cumulants
 Moment/cumulant-generating functions, characteristic function, entropy
 Sum and transformation of random variables
 Gaussian and Poisson distributions
 Law of large numbers and central limit theorem 
 
         2. Stochastic Processes (6 or 7 weeks) 
 
          Definitions and classification
 Markov and semi-Markov processes, Chapman-Kolmogorov equation
 Jump processes: the master equation
 Diffusion processes: the Fokker-Planck equation
 Deterministic processes: the Liouville equation
 General processes; martingales and semimartingales
 Evolution equations, forward and backward equations
 Stationary and homogeneous Markov processes, ergodicity
 Auto- and cross-covariance/correlation
 Random walk, Brownian motion, Wiener process
 Poisson process, compound Poisson process
 Renewal process, continuous-time random walk
 Stochastic integration: Ito and Stratonovich; Ito's formula
 Langevin equation, stochastic differential equations, Feynman-Kac theorem
 Euler-Maruyama and Milstein algorithms
 Geometric Brownian motion and Black-Scholes equation
 Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process and Vasicek model
 Rayleigh and Bessel processes, Cox-Ingersoll-Ross model
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         30 hours of lectures plus homework and assignments.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 

         	 Written exam (2.5 hours, 100%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain a pass mark of 50%.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Recommended book 
 
         Crispin W. Gardiner, Stochastic Methods - A Handbook for the Natural and Social Sciences, 4th ed., Springer 2009, Chapters 1-4, 10, 15, plus a few other selected parts, for a total of 150-200 out of 420 pages. See table of contents on http://www.springer.com/physics/complexity/book/978-3-540-70712-7 and a review of the 3rd edition (2004) on http://www.ejwagenmakers.com/2006/GardinerBookReview2006.pdf. 
 
         Further books

         	J. L. McCauley, Stochastic Calculus and Differential Equations for Physics and Finance, Cambridge University Press, 2013.
	N. van Kampen, Stochastic Processes, 3rd edition, Elsevier, 2007.
	W. Paul, J. Baschnagel, Stochastic Processes, Springer, 1999.
	Sheldon N. Ross, Stochastic Processes, 2nd edition, Wiley, 1996. 
	S. Karlin, H. M. Taylor, An Introduction to Stochastic Modeling, 3rd edition, Academic Press, 1998.
	S. Karlin, H. M. Taylor, A Second Course in Stochastic Processes, Academic Press, 1981.
	S. Karlin, H. M. Taylor, A First Course in Stochastic Processes, 2nd edition, Academic Press, 1975.

 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
