 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› 3005 - Operating Systems 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3005 - Operating Systems

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP3005 (Also taught as: COMPGA09) 
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	
	Term	1
	Taught By	Antoaneta Serguieva
	Aims	 This is a practical course whose primary goal is to develop an understanding of the operation of operating systems, building on and showing the utility of basic material covered in previous courses, including data structures and algorithms, concurrency, and networks. Since most practical operating systems are written in C-based languages, this course will use C. A good level of programming ability in C will be assumed, and students will be expected develop further expertise through practice.
 
	Learning Outcomes	To be able to: (a) read and understand C well and construct sophisticated C programs; (b) describe the functions of the major components of an operating system; (c) compare and contrast alternative possible implementations for some of these components; (d) implement a range of components for a practical UNIX-like operating system; (e) analyse the performance of components

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Anatomy of an Operating System
Operating system structure: UNIX vs Windows
Threads and processes
Process creation and death
Process Control Blocks
Process scheduling
Concurrency control
Memory management
Device management
Networking
Protection
Bootstrapping an OS 

Practical work
The structure of the chosen UNIX source code
Compiling and debugging this system
Implementation of modules
Performance analysis modules

         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations, programming lab classes, exercise questions. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination ( 2.5 hours, 85%);
	Coursework Section (15%).


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 30% in each component worth ? 30% of the module as a whole. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture notes
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
