 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› MSc Financial Risk Management ›› G011 - Data Analytics 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPG011 - Data Analytics

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPG011
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Good knowledge of basic mathematics and statistics.

	Term	2
	Taught By	Tomaso Aste (100%)
	Aims	The course is aimed at introducing to data analytics providing some basic data-science tools. Statistical tools to individuate regularities, discover patterns and laws in complex datasets will be introduced to students together with instruments to analyse, characterize, validate, parameterize and model complex data. Practical issues on business data analysis and statistics will be covered with specific case studies also in collaboration with industrial partners.

	Learning Outcomes	Students will become able to analyse main statistical features of complex datasets. On successful completion of the course, a student should have a good understanding on: 1) how to analyse, characterize empirically complex data; 2) how to compute relevant statistical quantities and quantify their confidence intervals; 3) how to build sensible models and how to parameterize and validate these models; 4) how to quantify inter-dependency/causality structure between different variables; 5) how to use the outcome of data-analytics to develop better tools for forecasting.
Applications:
There is a great need to increase the data-analytics capability in the business community. Data scientists are in great increasing demand. Instruments and tools provided by this course are essential to understand, model and make practical use of the very large quantity of data that most businesses are currently collecting.
Further information and material available to students on the course moodle page.
 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         Empirical investigation of complex data
Essential practical familiarization with complex and big data. Typical challenges with real business data. Basics on data acquisition, manipulation, cleaning, filtering, representation and plotting.  
 
         Univariate and multivariate statistics
Marginal probability, joint probability and conditional probability. Empirical estimation of probability distributions. Measures of dependency. Cause and effect. Granger causality, mutual information, transfer entropy. Spurious correlations and regularization. Forecasting and regressions. Calibration, validation hypothesis testing. 
 
         Modelling and filtering through networks
Basics on complex networks: definitions and properties. Construction of networks of interactions form correlation and causality measures. Information filtering though networks.  
 
         Applications and case-study
Application of the studied material and methods to practical cases and real data will be done within the course through case-studies developed in collaboration with industrial partners.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         3 hours of lectures per week, practical exercises, case studie
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         • Coursework (100%) 
 
         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         • Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Dunlop, Dorothy D., and Ajit C. Tamhane. Statistics and data analysis: from elementary to intermediate. Prentice Hall, 2000.
G Casella and RL Berger, Statistical Inference, Thomson Learning 2002. 
Newman “Networks: an introduction”, Oxford University Press 
 
         Further reading
Mayer-Schönberger, Viktor, and Kenneth Cukier. Big data: A revolution that will transform how we live, work, and think. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2013.
Silver, Nate. The signal and the noise: Why so many predictions fail-but some don't. Penguin, 2012.
Ohlhorst, Frank J. Big data analytics: turning big data into big money. John Wiley & Sons, 2012.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
