 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Computer Science students run first ever inspiration event for children
 
         
          
          

          
          

          
          

         
 
         On Saturday 12th March, more than 40 children aged 10-18 from outer city schools gathered at UCL Engineering for HackStart, a day of tech demos, talks and workshops organised and run solely by first year Computer Science students and members of UCLU TechSoc.
 
         Over 20 first year CS students conducted self-designed workshops and demos hoping to inspire attendees to take up STEM or Computer Science at the University level.  The topics included game development, cryptography with Python and Virtual Reality with the Oculus. Some made use of their high quality Coding Curriculum projects such as the Javascript education platform, Coffee School.
 
         The children were able to see the most exciting developments in Computer Science directly from those studying it.  The sessions also promoted discussion between volunteers and attendees to give a first-hand impression of what studying Computer Science means and how exciting the field is. During the closing session, we had a lively Q&A session for volunteers to share their experience studying Computer Science at UCL to those aspiring to take up Computer Science in the future. 
 
         HackStart is part of the UCLU TechSoc’s efforts to inspire the next generation to take up more STEM-related subjects as well as Computer Science at the University level.  TechSoc members have volunteered frequently at events such as CoderDojo, YRS Hack Day at the Open Data Institute as well as running workshops for the Hour Of Code.
UCLU TechSoc would like to thank the Department of Computer Science for sponsoring this event and for their continued support in empowering the student community to able to run such events. We would also like to thank Rae Harbird and Elpida Makrygianni for their guidance.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 15 Mar 16 16:58 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL join forces with the... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Bank of England & UCL...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
