 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GA12 - Applied Cryptography 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGA12 - Applied Cryptography

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGA12 (Also taught as COMPM064)
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	N/A
	Term	2
	Taught By	Nicolas Courtois (100%)
	Aims	Understanding how cryptographic algorithms keys and protocols, and an appropriate hardware (software) environment can solve security problems (confidentiality, integrity, authenticity). Showing how security is achieved in real­life systems in areas of telecom, government/identity, buildings/transportation, payment. 
Real-life applications of encryption, Message Authentication Codes (MAC) and Digital Signatures in smart cards and terminals, personnal identity and crypto currency systems. RFID technology. 
Understanding attacks and vulnerabilities of current industrial standards. Cryptography in practice, side­channel attacks and countermeasures. 

	Learning Outcomes	Learning how security problems are solved in the industry, and understanding why specific choices are made. 
Understanding security (attacks and defences) in complex real­life systems and the role of keys, cryptographic algorithms and protocols, tamper resistant hardware and other types of countermeasures. Study of entity authentication and data authentication, challenge-response. 
Understanding multiple ways to attack and defend in industrial systems. 
Technology adoption, legal, ethical, business and usability questions. Industry regulation and security standards. Common criteria security evaluations. 
History of payment and smart card industry. Security engineering and promotion of ‘best practices’. 
Understanding fraud crime and attacks in payment systems. Study of bitcoin and decentralized crypto currencies. 
Digital signatures in practice with legal/regulatory aspects. 
Electronic commerce, SSL/TLS, Forward Security, standard methods of encoding of digital signatures and certificates (X.509). 


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Tentative schedule is as follows:  
 
         Week 1: Smart Cards, Hardware Security. Security engineering.  
 
         Week 2: Mobile phone security. RFID systems, access control, user/data authentication.  
 
         Week 3: Key sizes. Random number and key generation. Symmetric cryptography engineering, key derivation and key management.  
 
         Week 4: Bank cards and terminals, history, EMV specs, different forms of security, fraud, attacks.  
 
         Week 5: Public key crypto engineering, best practices, standardized algorithms and padding methods. PGP vs. smart cards. PKI vs. alternatives.  
 
         Week 6: Applications of digital signatures. Legal/regulatory aspects, qualified certificates, timestamping.  
 
         Week 7: More applications of PK crypto. Electronic passports and ID cards vs. SDA/DDA/CDA in bank cards.  
 
         Week 8: Electronic commerce, SSL/TLS, Forward Security, standard methods of encoding of digital signatures and certificates (X.509).  
 
         Week 9: Financial cryptography, payment systems, crypto currencies, bitcoin.  
 
         Week 10: Side-channel attacks (timing, SPA, DPA and DFA). Side-channel attack countermeasures.  
 
         Tutorial and Labs: Writing programs with standard crypto libraries (OpenSSL, NTL, GMP) and developing efficient and secure implementations of cryptography in C++/Java. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Tutor-­led class sessions, problem­ solving sessions and private study. Crypto implementation lab. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessments:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours) (85%)
	Coursework (15%): Moodle Quiz


         To pass this module, students must: 

         	 Obtain a mark of at least 50% for the module overall.


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture notes on Moodle (id=11577). 
Additional recent and older resources can be found at blog.bettercrypto.com; 
 
         Recommended texts: 
Ross Anderson: "Security Engineering" Wiley 2006, chapters 3-5,10,11,16,22,26. 
W. Rankl and W. Effing, "Smart Card Handbook" Wiley 2003. 
"Handbook of Applied Cryptography" by A. Menezes, P. van Oorschot, and S. Vanstone, CRC Press, 1996, www.cacr.math.uwaterloo.ca/hac&nbsp;
Mayes, K. and Markantonakis K (Editors) "Smart Cards, Tokens, Security and Applications" Springer 200 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
