 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GC05 - Algorithmics 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGC05 - Algorithmics

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGC05 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	This course should be taken in conjunction with the core courses for MSc Computer Science and MSc Financial Computing.
	Term	2
	Taught By	Denise Gorse (50%), Jens Krinke (50%) 
	Aims	To introduce more formal aspects of algorithms and data structures than in the first term. Properties of data types such as queues and search trees. Techniques for analysing the complexity and decidability of algorithms. Formal models of computation. 
	Learning Outcomes	Knowledge of a selection of standard data structures and abstract data types. The ability to choose appropriate data structures for programming problems. Understanding of a variety of common algorithms and why some are more efficient than others. Ability to discuss uncomputable and intractable algorithms. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Course Introduction
Introduction to data structures and abstract data types; Abstract data types and Java classes; Language facilities; Model of storage in imperative languages; Cells, l-values and r-values; Exceptions; Data aggregation: arrays, structures and object references. 
 
         Linear abstract data types
Stacks and queues; Implementations with arrays and linked lists; Applications;  Sequences; Circular and double linked lists; Inheritance relationships between linear linked lists. 
 
         Tables
Linear look-up table; Linear search; Binary search. 
 
         Trees
Definitions of trees; Binary search tree; Insertion, deletion, tree traversal and searching. 
 
         Hash tables
Chaining; Open addressing; Choice of hash function. 
 
         Graphs
Adjacency lists; Adjacency matrices; Depth and breadth first traversal. 
 
         Sorting
Insertion Sort; Mergesort; Quicksort. 
 
         Analysis of Algorithms
Empirical vs theoretical analysis; Algorithmic complexity; O notation; Best, worst, and average cases; Sums of series; Simple summation formulae. 
 
         Analysis of earlier examples
Includes linear and binary search. 
 
         Limits of Computation
Tractable and intractable problems; the complexity classes P, NP, NPC Undecidability; the Halting Problem.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations, coursework and associated class problems.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components

         	Written Examination (2.5 hours, 85%)
	Coursework Section (15%, 5 pieces for 2% each, 1 piece for 5%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Algorithmics - The Science of Computing. D.Harel, Addison-Wesley, 1989.

Clifford A. Shaffer, "Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis”,  Edition 3.2 (Java Version) <http://people.cs.vt.edu/shaffer/Book/> 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
