 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› M062 - Computer Security I 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM062 - Computer Security I

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM062 (Also taught as COMPGA01) 
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	None
	Term	1
	Taught By	George Danezis (100%) 
	Aims	This module provides an introduction to computer security concepts and techniques. It covers core security principles to engineer systems that provide certain properties, like confidentiality, integrity or availability, despite the efforts of malicious entities to subvert them. We will study military and commercial security design patterns, but also topics around privacy, censorship, or pervasive surveillance. All topics are approached from a security engineer perspective, but also from the perspective of someone who aims to bypass security protections. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students will learn how to recognise security properties of systems, as well as formulate security policies, and model the threats they may face. Through exposure to a number of established industry and government security mechanisms and design patterns, they will be able to select appropriate controls to guarantee that the security policies are robustly implemented and may sustain efforts to subvert them. Conversely, students will gain skills in analysing computer systems, and developing strategies to bypass security controls.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         The course is organized in 10 topics. The first half of the course covers basic principles; access control; UNIX, Windows and Android security; high-confidentiality government systems; high-integrity commercial systems, including banking and medical informatics. The second half dives goes into the details of technical protection mechanisms and computer attacks including hardware mechanisms; network defences and attacks; authentication & identification; and applied cryptography.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated class coursework.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Written Examination (2.5 hours, 85%)
	Coursework Section (1 piece, 15%) due in week 10.


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Dieter Gollmann "Computer Security" (3rd edition, but 2nd is also fine) - available in the UCL library  
 
         http://www.amazon.com/Computer-Security-Dieter-Gollmann/dp/0470741155   
 
         Ross Anderson "Security Engineering"  
 
         http://www.amazon.com/Security-Engineering-Building-Dependable-Distributed/dp/0470068523/  (Also available on-line at: http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/ ~rja14/book.html)  
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
