 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› MSc Financial Risk Management ›› G009 - Networks and Systemic Risk 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPG009 - Networks and Systemic Risk

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPG009 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Familiarity with basic probability and calculus; the coursework requires basic programming skills
	Term	2
	Taught By	Fabio Caccioli (100%)
	Aims	The first part of the course presents a general introduction to complex networks and dynamical processes. The second part is focused on specific applications to the study of contagion in financial networks. Overall, the course represents an introduction to the topic of systemic risk and stress propagation in networked systems.

	Learning Outcomes	The student will be able to 1) compute network metrics and provide a statistical description of networks, 2) analyze dynamical processes on networks, 3) implement simple algorithms for the analysis of financial contagion. 


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         Introduction to complex networks 

         	Basic concepts of networks (graphs, subgraphs, adjacency matrix, undirected, directed and weighted networks), common metrics (degree, betweenness, centrality, clustering, degree distribution, excess degree distribution, mixing patterns, real world examples). 
	Network models (random networks, configuration model, small world, preferential attachment). 

 
         Collective behavior 

         	Emergence of a giant cluster. Robustness to random and targeted attacks.
	Spreading processes, master equation, approximate solution of the master equation, mean field approximation, computer simulations.
	Cascade processes on networks.

 
         Application to interbank networks and systemic risk

         	Interbank lending networks, payment networks, and their properties.
	Furfine default algorithm and cascades of defaults.
	Clearing vector of payments and the Eisenberg-Noe model.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         30 hours of lectures plus homework and assignments
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	Coursework (50%, individual project on financial networks and written essay)
	Written examination (2.5 hours, 50%)


         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Recommended texts
Barrat, Bathelemy and Vespignani “Dynamical processes on complex  networks”, Cambridge University Press
Newman “Networks: an introduction”, Oxford University Press  
 
         Further reading
Barabasi and Albert, “Statistical mechanics of complex networks ”Review of Modern Physics 74, 47
Lorenz, Battiston and Schweitzer“Systemic Risk in a Unifying Framework for Cascading Processes on Networks” European Journal of Physics B 71, no 4 441-460
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
