 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› MSc Web Science and Big Data Analytics ›› GW01 - Complex Networks and Web 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGW01 - Complex Networks and Web

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGW01 (Also taught as: COMPM042)
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	Normally offered only to students in computer science related programmes because programming skills are required for the coursework project. 
	Term	1
	Taught By	Shi Zhou (100%)
	Aims	This module introduces the fundamental concepts, principles and methods in the interdisciplinary academic field of network science, with a particular focus on the Internet, the World Wide Web and online social media networks. Topics covered include graphic structures of networks, mathematical models of networks, the Internet topology, structure of the Web, community structures, epidemic spreading, PageRank, temporal networks and spatial networks.
	Learning Outcomes	On successful completion of this module the students will be able to:

             	Define and calculate basic network graphic metrics.
	Describe structural features of the Internet and the Web.
	Relate graphic properties to network functions and evolution.
	Explore new angles to understand network collective behaviours.
	Design and conduct analysis on large network datasets.



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         Network science
Complex networks
Network graphic metrics
Random networks
Small-world networks
Scale-free networks
Network mathematical models
Network structural constraints
Network centrality measures
Temporal networks
Spatial networks
Network visualisation 
 
         Communication and information networks
Internet core structure – evolution and modelling
Structure of the Web – PageRank and document networks
Online social media networks - Twitter, Facebook, Amazon, … 
 
         Network functions and behaviours
“Rich gets richer” phenomenon
Link, neighbourhood and community
Cascades and epidemics 
Network structure balance
Sentimental, temporal and spatial analysis of social media networks
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Delivery

         
 
          
          
         A Moodle webpage is created for the course. All course materials, such as lecture notes and online resources will be shared. By using the Moodle, students will also be able to discuss ideas and questions with the lecturer and other students. 
 
         In the second half of the term, there will be a weekly one-hour lab/tutorial session, where the lecturer and/or a teaching assistant will discuss questions with students. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessment components: 

         	Unseen written examination (2.5 hour, 70%)
	Course project (30%) 


         To pass this module, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all components combined.


         (The Course Project consists of an individual project on network data analysis (programming is usually required), and a project report (3000 words), including literature survey, which is due by the end of the Winter Holidays.)  
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         D. Easley and J. Kleinberg. Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning About a Highly Connected World, Cambridge University Press, 2010. 
M. E. J. Newman. Networks: An Introduction, Oxford University Press, 2010.
S. N. Dorogovtsev. Lectures on Complex Networks, Oxford University Press, 2010. 
 
         Other books for interest:
D. J. Watts. Small Worlds: The Dynamics of Networks between Order and Randomness, Princeton University Press, 1999
M. Dodge and R. Kitchin. Atlas of Cyberspace, Pearson Education, 2001.
S. N. Dorogovtsev and J. F. F. Mendes. Evolution of Networks: From Biological Nets to the Internet and WWW, Oxford University Press, 2003.
M. Mitchell. Complexity: A Guided Tour, Oxford University Press, 2009.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
