 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GV07 - Virtual Environments 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGV07 - Virtual Environments

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGV07 (Also taught as: COMPM076) 
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	
	Term	1
	Taught By	Anthony Steed (100%) 
 
	Aims	The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the main concepts and practical issues in constructing and understanding Virtual Environments, and how people respond to a VE experience. Given the background of the course teachers, the focus on the technical side will be more on the visual aspects of VEs. A central theme of the course will also be that the understanding of VEs can be best understood through the concepts of presence and shared presence. 
	Learning Outcomes	By the end of this course students should have an understanding of the core issues in VEs and have constructed a VE using a shared VE system. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Introduction
Virtual Environment 
Technology Requirements 
Applications 
 
         Interaction
3D Interaction tasks 
Tracking 
Input devices 
System affordances 
3D Widgets 
 
         Presence 
Immersion and presence 
Meaning and utility of presence 
Measuring presence 
 
         Displays 
3D and Stereo Viewing 
HMDs, CAVEs and desks 
Graphics Architectures 
 
         Programming Virtual Environments 
Programming models 
Simulation and animation 
Programming for distribution ves 
 
         Devices 
Haptic devices 
Sound simulation 
Augmented reality
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations, peer-led seminars, and lab-classes. There are 2 pieces of coursework.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 70%)
	Coursework Section (2 pieces, 30%)


         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.


         The examination rubric is:
Answer three questions out of five. All questions carry equal marks.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Computer Graphics And Virtual Environments - From Realism to Real-Time. Mel Slater, Yiorgos Chrysanthou, Anthony Steed, ISBN 0201-62420-6, Addison-Wesley, 2002. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
