 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› MSc Robotics and Computation ›› GX03 - Robotic Sensing, Manipulation and Interaction 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGX03 - Robotic Sensing, Manipulation and Interaction

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGX03
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None
	Term	1
	Taught By	Mandayam Srinivasan and Vijay Pawar
	Aims	To make sure students are familiar with various concepts in robotic sensing and manipulation and to give them a working knowledge of haptic interfaces and haptic control. These concepts will be used to teach students the principles and practical implementation of a tele-manipulation system involving a user interface, end-effector and a haptic or visual display unit.

	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing the module should understand: 
1. Multi—modal sensing and force feedback mechanisms
2. Haptics and feedback control systems
3. Tele-manipulation
Programming with Matlab or Python or C++ and ROS.


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         





              For robots to safely manipulate objects and work collaboratively with  humans, they must have the ability to understand their surroundings using a range of multi-modal sensing and cognitive control strategies. By building different types of feedback systems, we will outline how to design robotics systems with capabilities such as localising objects in their environment. visual and haptic servoing, teleoperation, safety control features etc. to then perform manipulations collaboratively with other actors (robots and humans). Further, we will also discuss the design and testing of these control strategies in the context of different real-world scenarios such as robotic manufacturing, surgery and biomanipulation examples in the life sciences. Topics we will cover include:
             
             

              • Introduction to feedback control systems
             
             

              • Multi-modal robotic sensing and control
             
             

              • Robot collaborative working and interaction (teleoperation to full autonomous interaction)
             
             

              • Manipulation and mechanics of manipulation
             
             

              • Testing and deployment strategies in different application domains (e.g. biology to manufacturing)
             
            
           
          
         
         	
	
	

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lectures and lab classes. Prof Mandayam A. Srinivasan and Dr Vijay M Pawar will deliver lecture classes. In addition, labs will use graduate demonstrators.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         Coursework (100%)
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
