 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› M081 - Geometry of Images 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM081 - Geometry of Images

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	 COMPM081 (Also taught as: COMPGV11) 
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of years 1 and 2 of the Computer Science programme, including the mathematics course/option, or core courses in computer science and mathematics. Plus Image Processing in Year 3. 
	Term	2
	Taught By	Simon Arridge (50%) 
Lewis Griffin (50%) 
	Aims	To introduce the generalisation of image processing to n-Dimensional data : volume data, scale space, time-series and vectorial data. 
	Learning Outcomes	To understand the principles of image processing in n-dimensions, time-series analysis and scale space, and to understand the relations between geometric objects and sampled images. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         0. Basic Image Operations
    Fourier Transforms
    Convolution and Differentiation in Fourier Domain Recursive Filters
    Marching Square/ Cubes
    Level Set Methods 

1. Introduction to Differential Geometry
    1.1 Images as functions
    - Definitions
    - Taylor Series expansion and the Koenderick jet
    - Properties of the local Hessian
    - Definition of extrema and saddle points
    - Ridges in n-dimensions
    - Image invarients up to fourth order
    1.2 Curvature
    - Contour curvature
    - Image curvature
    - 3D curvature: the Weingarten mapping, Gaussian and mean curvatures 

2. Scale Space
    2.1 Linear Scale Space
    - Introduction and background
    - Formal properties
    - Gaussian kernels and their derivitives
    2.2 Non-linear Scale Space
    - Motivation
    - Edge-effected diffusion (Perona-Malik)
    - Classification of Alvarez and Morel
    - Euclidian and Affine shortening flow
    - Numerical methods for computing scale spaces 

3. Multispectral Images and Statistical Classification
    3.1 Feature Space
    - Introduction
    - Definitions of feature space
    - Clustering
    3.2 Statistical Methods
    - Linear and non-linear discriminant functions
    - Supervised learning
    - Unsupervised learning 

4. Bayesian and Information Theoretic Approaches
    Bayesian Image Restoration
    Markov Random Fields
    Definitions of Entropy and Mutual information
    Deconvolution with image priors (statistical and structural 


         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated class coursework and laboratory sessions
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 75%)
	Coursework Section (2 pieces, 25%)


         To pass this course, students must: 
 
         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.


         The examination rubric is:
Choice of 3 questions from 5. All questions carry equal marks 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Copy of lecture notes/overheads, Coursework assignments, Guidance notes for courseworks
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
