 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› 3096 - Research Group Project 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3096 - Research Group Project

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP3096 
	Year	3 (MEng CS only)
	Prerequisites	COMP3095 Research Methods
	Term	2
	Taught By	Projects co-ordinator = Licia Capra (100%) 
	Aims	To give undergraduate students exposure to cutting-edge research undertaken in the department and to enhance student awareness of the range of research in computer science. To allow undergraduate students to conduct research in computer science, with an emphasis on understanding and doing the various steps required to realize and validate an idea.

	Learning Outcomes	To learn to carry out research activities in a systematic and organized way; to critically evaluate and review their work and the work of others; to present succinctly to an informed audience (orally and in writing); to produce an original research paper or technical report 


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The students will work in groups to conduct a research project and produce a report/paper presenting their results, under the supervision of one of the departments’ research groups.  This work will build on that undertaken in the prerequisite module, COMP3095 Research Methods.

Week 1: course introduction, team formation (4-6 students per group), assignment to research supervisor (to be the same as for COMP3095.

Weeks 1-2: definition of scope of the projects and agreement of the steps to be undertaken (project specific).

Weeks 3-8: research steps undertaken under the guidance and supervision of supervisor. Tutorials will run on a weekly basis.

Weeks 9-10: preparation of final deliverables. Each *team* is required to submit a paper/report, presenting the results of the project (e.g., hypothesis/research idea, methodology followed, experiments conducted,analysis of results).  Each *student* is also required to submit a personal report giving (a) a critical assessment of the project results, (b) a detailed assessment of their own role, including a summary of what they contributed, and (c) a brief assessment of each group member. A mini-conference will be organised at the end of the project, with each group asked to give a 15 minute formal presentation of their work.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         At the end of the course, each group will write a research paper about the project; furthermore, each student will write an individual report, detailing and reflecting upon the work undertaken as an individual that has led to the final project outcomes.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment component:

         	Coursework (100%) - Group report and individual report combined (15,000 words), plus a group presentation.


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Resources will be posted on the Moodle page.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 26 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
