 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GI19 - Statistical Natural Language Processing 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGI19 - Statistical Natural Language Processing

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGI19 (also taught as COMPM083)
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	N/A
	Term	1
	Taught By	Sebastian Riedel (100%)
	Aims	The course introduced the basics of statistical natural language processing (NLP) including both linguistics concepts such as morphology and syntax and machine learning techniques relevant for NLP.
	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing the module should understand:
 
             	relevant linguistic concepts
	relevant ML techniques, in particular structured prediction
	what makes NLP challenging (and exciting)
	how to write programs that process language
	how to rigorously formulate NLP tasks as learning and inference tasks, and address the computational challenges involved.



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         NLP is domain-centred fields, as opposed to technique centred fields such as ML, and as such there is no "theory of NLP" which can be taught in a cumulative technique-centred way. Instead this course will focus on one or two NLP end-to-end "pipelines" (such as Machine Translation and Machine Reading). Through these applications the participants will learn about language itself, relevant linguistic concepts, and Machine Learning techniques. For the latter an emphasis will be on structured prediction, a branch of ML that is particularly relevant to NLP. 
 
         Topics will include (but are not restricted to) machine translation, sequence tagging, constituent and dependency parsing, information extraction, semantics.  
 
         The course has a strong applied character, with coursework to be programmed, and lab classes to teach students to write software that processes language. 
 
         Indicative contents:

         	Introduction
	Machine Translation 1
	Machine Translation 2
	Document Classification and Clustering
	Tagging
	Syntactic Parsing 1
	Syntactic Parsing 2
	Coreference
	Information Extraction
	Semantic Parsing

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Mode of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Lectures and lab classes, with occasional guest lectures by leading researchers in NLP. 
 
         Coursework problems will focus on basic components in an NLP pipeline, such as a document classifier, part-of-speech tagger and syntactic parser.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment component:

         	Coursework (100%)


         Individual projects related to particular foundations, steps and techniques in the NLP pipeline. There will be 2-3 assignments, consisting of software to be written and presented, and a write-up. 
 
         To pass this module students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         Daniel Jurafsky and James H. Martin (2008) Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech Recognition. 2nd Edition. Prentice Hall.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
