 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus
      ›› MSc Robotics and Computation ›› GX01 - Robotic Systems Engineering 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGX01 - Robotic Systems Engineering

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGX01
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	None
	Term	1
	Taught By	Danail Stoyanov (Lectures) 
	Aims	The students will gain an introductory overview of robotics and autonomous systems. Technically they will gain an understanding of the concepts and principles of ROS, the underpinning software development environment for robot systems, through a number of example applications, leading to the capability of using ROS for advanced robot control, navigation, sensing and verification.
	Learning Outcomes	Students successfully completing the module should understand:
1. Basic ROS programming
2. Foundations of robotic systems
3. Basic kinematics and robot motion
4. Working with a robot platform such as the KUKA Youbot or other teaching platform


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         



            This module gives an overview of robotics in practice and research. Topics covered include motion planning, mobile mechanisms, kinematics, inverse kinematics, and sensors. The course will also expose students to some of the contemporary happenings in robotics, which includes current robot lab research, applications, robot contests and robots in the news and in industry. Other specific content in the course includes:
           
           

            - Foundations and principles of robotic kinematics including transformations, forward kinematics. inverse kinematics. differential kinematics, manipulability. and basic equations of motion.
           
           

            - Implementation of robotic standards within industry
           
          
         
         	
	
	

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         The module is delivered through a combination of lectures and lab classes.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         Coursework (100%) 
 
         To pass this course, students must: Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Resources can be found on Moodle. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
