 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Computer Science fills UCL liaison role at the Alan Turing Institute
 
         
          
          

         
 
         David Pym, Professor of Information, Logic, and Security, and Head of the Programming Principles, Logic and Verification Research Group at UCL Computer Science, has been appointed UCL’s University Liaison Director with the Alan Turing Institute, succeeding Professor Sofia Olhede (UCL Statistical Science). 
 
         UCL is a founding partner of the Turing, the UK’s national data science institute. Its mission is to:

         	undertake data science research at the intersection of computer science, mathematics, statistics and systems engineering
	provide technically informed advice to policymakers on the wider implications of algorithms
	enable researchers from industry and academia to work together to undertake research with practical applications
	act as a magnet for leaders in academia and industry from around the world to engage with the UK in data science and its applications.


         Professor Pym said: “The Alan Turing Institute represents not only a major development of the UK’s presence in the data sciences, but also a significant opportunity for UCL. I hope that we can encourage engagement with the Turing from across the breadth of UCL’s activities. The Turing's scientific mission is inherently highly interdisciplinary: as such, it faces many challenges, including the development of common concepts and languages, the integration of methodologies and cultures, and the identification of shared problems. It also has the opportunity to advance the relationships between the contributing disciplines as it finds solutions to some of the most pressing problems of our times. UCL, with its collaborative spirit and ethos of doing useful research, is ideally placed to be in the forefront of the Turing’s development and success.”   
 
         Professor Nigel Titchener-Hooker, Dean of UCL Engineering, said, “As David takes on this new position, we extend our grateful thanks to Sofia, the outgoing University Liaison Director, who is stepping down to focus on her European Research Council Fellowship. Over the past year, Sofia has led UCL's engagement with the Turing, overseeing the selection of our Faculty Fellows and the establishment of essential financial and administrative processes. In addition, she has served as inaugural Chair of the Institute's Science Committee and its Interim Programme Committee, leading the recruitment of the first cohort of Turing Research Fellows, and facilitating dialogue between the five university partners and the Alan Turing Institute to agree human resources procedures. Prior to this, she oversaw the Turing's early scientific scoping process, which peer-reviewed more than 100 applications, funded over 30 workshops, and produced the Turing Scoping Programme, with a report summarising the data science landscape.”
 
         See more at: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/news/news-articles/1116/071116-new-ucl-liaison-alan-turing-institute/ 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 09 Nov 16 16:41 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL Student Project at... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Today marks official...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
