 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› GS06 - Financial Institutions and Markets 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPGS06 - Financial Institutions and Markets

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPGS06 (Also taught as: COMPM026)
	Year	MSc
	Prerequisites	An understanding of the fundamentals macro-economics & software services.
	Term	1
	Taught By	Donald Lawrence & Industrial SMEs
	Aims	The module exposes participants to an overview of the financial information sector and interaction with global financial markets, which constitute an important application domain of computer science in the southeast UK as well as main global financial centers. The module facilitates transfer of substantial domain knowledge based on IB Analyst training program the lecturer delivers in major int’l firms. Successful candidates may continue with modules COMPGF03 &/or COMPGS07 to gain deeper understanding of  risk management & financial information systems in this domain. 
	Learning Outcomes	Upon successful completion of the module, participants will understand the function of financial information systems in the context of the broad structure of public and private sector banks, asset managers, brokers, regulators, exchanges, clearing houses, and infrastructure utilities. All together this eco-system supports the effective and liquid global financial market place. Participants will:
 
             	 have an overview of the dynamics, key inter-dependencies and comparative advantages between issuer, intermediary and investor;  
	understand the different motivations of stakeholders, and how participants navigate market, credit, operational, liquidity and reputation risk in order to maximize risk adjusted returns;  
	examine the impact of e-commerce, information technology and smart-sourcing of empirical analysis, price discovery, best execution, confirmation, affirmation, settlement, and risk within exchange and off-exchange markets; 
	become familiar with market cause and effect enabling more effective and credible interaction with industry professionals to optimize comprehension of business requirements; 
	understand the significance of historic/current cyclical trends enabling participants to apply the knowledge gained in communication and collaboration with management in the financial services domain. 



 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Public and Private Sector Institutional Participants
Overview of Consumer, Corporate and Investment Banking Financial Services
The Factors Affecting Economic Cycles and Financial Institution Risk Adjusted Returns
Time Value of Money, Discounting, Nominal and Effective Yield Measurement
Capital Equilibrium between Issuer and Investor
Capital Market Valuation and Measurement
A Day in the Life of a Transaction
Roles, Responsibilities and Controls of Deal Makers, Processing and Technical Staff
Cash and Derivative Instruments, Transaction Services, and Advisory
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations, associated case studies, labs & tutorials & UCL Finds debates & conferences. 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	 Written Examination (2.5 hours, 75%)
	Coursework Section (25%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all sections combined.
	Pass the coursework section.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Saunders, ‘Financial Institutions Management’, 2003. 
 
         Valdez, ‘Introduction to Global Financial Markets’, 2002. 
 
         Lewis, 'Flash Boys', WWNorton 2014.     
 
         Roberts, ‘Wall Street’, 2002. 
 
         Steiner, ‘Mastering Financial Calculations’, 1998.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
