 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› M022 - Software Abstractions and Systems Integration 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMPM022 - Software Abstractions and Systems Integration

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMPM022 (Also taught as: COMPGS02) 
	Year	4
	Prerequisites	Practical experience of software design, programming, testing and debugging at least equivalent to UCL 3rd year undergraduate study. Since COMPGS02/M022 involves software development activities that build upon an industrial project started in COMPGS01/M014, we highly recommend students follow COMPGS01/M014 before following COMPGS02/M022. We also recommend students to have followed COMPGS04/M024 or alternatively to have good working experience of software development tools and environments. 

	Term	2
	Taught By	Wolfgang Emmerich (33%), Emmanuel Letier (33%), Dean Mohamedally (33%)
	Aims	Students will develop skills and knowledge to design, implement and integrate large-scale software systems from heterogeneous components and services. Emphasis will be put on fundamental principles and practical issues of system integration projects. Students will also develop essential research skills needed to stay at the leading edge of software development throughout their career.

	Learning Outcomes	By the end of this module, students should be able to demonstrate knowledge and critical awareness of techniques and technologies for systems integration, to apply such knowledge to the development of a substantial system by teams of developers, to independently research and evaluate new techniques and technologies for system integration, and communicate their evaluation to a variety of stakeholders in a professional environment.


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         Scaling Agile
Agile Architectures 
Enterprise Integration Patterns 
SOLID Design Principles
Polylingual Software Systems
Testable Architectures 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         This module is largely problem-based and self-directed. It involves software development activities where students will work in small groups on a substantial system integration project for a client. Lectures and reading materials will be provided to facilitate these activities and reflect on the work done.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The module has the following assessment components: 
 
         	Coursework component 1 (50%) 
	Coursework component 2 (50%).

 
         To pass this module, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 50% for all components combined;
	Obtain a minimum mark of 40% in each component worth ≥ 30% of the module as a whole.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture notes and readings will be given during the course.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
