 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› 312P - Machine Learning and Neural Computing 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP312P - Machine Learning and Neural Computing

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP313P 
	Term	1
	Taught By	Harry Strange 
	Aims	This module will introduce students. with limited mathematics or computer science background. to the fundamental concepts of machine learning and neural computing and their relation to intelligent systems. Machine learning is an exciting and important topic that has application both within and beyond the field of intelligent systems.
 
	Learning Outcomes	This module has two main learning outcomes:
1. Develop a knowledge and an understanding of machine leaming and neural computing and how they relate to intelligent systems.
2. Gain experience in building basic machine learning and neural computing systems whilst understanding the limitations of such systems (e.g. over-fitting, curse of dimensionality, etc.).


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         The proposed course outline is as follows: 
 
         • Topic 1: Introduction to machine learning. Introducing fundamental concepts and classes of machine learning (i.e. unsupervised. reinforced, supervised). 
 
         • Topic 2: Classification & Regression. The two primary tasks of machine learning. Present the concepts of automated reasoning and decision making from learnt data models. 
 
         • Topic 3: The neural model. Introduce neural computing as an alternative knowledge acquisition/representation paradigm along with its relationship to neurobiological models. 
 
         • Topic 4: Deep representations. Introduce the concepts behind deep learning and the benefits of deep over shallow networks. 
 
         • Topic 5: Reinforcement Learning. Introduce concepts behind learning the actions and behaviours that systems can undertake. 
 
         • Topic 6: Effective use of machine learning. Conditions under which machine learning will / will not be successful. Also includes discussion of issues such as training and cross-validation.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         The module will attempt to balance both the theory and practice of machine learning and neural computation for their use in intelligent systems. 
 
         Each week consists of two hours of lectures on theory and two hours of laboratories in which students will investigate the behaviour of those theories. 
 
         Assessment will be through completing a set of three or tour mini-projects will be set as part of the laboratory exercise. These projects will be assessed by demonstration of results and submission of a written report.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components: 
 
         Lab based worksheets (40%) 
 
         Coursework (60%)
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
