 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› 3095 - Research Methods 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP3095 - Research Methods

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP3095 
	Year	3
	Prerequisites	Successful completion of years 1 and 2 of Computer Science. 
	Term	1
	Taught By	Anthony Hunter (50%), Denise Gorse (50%) 
	Aims	The aims of this module are to: 
 
             	deepen the students' appreciation of what computer research is and how it is carried out. 
	teach students how to read research publications critically. 
	teach students how to evaluate research ideas. 
	teach students how to perform a literature survey and outline the work needed to produce a research paper. 
	introduce the students to both seminal papers and cutting-edge research in computer science. 


	Learning Outcomes	The students should be able to identify seminal and cutting-edge topics in computer science, distinguish research topics from engineering tasks, know how to go about evaluating the novelty and contribution of a research idea. 
 They should know how to write a critical survey.
 They should also gain a good knowledge of a number of areas of research carried out in the department. 


 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content

         
 
          
          
         Weeks 1 and 2

         	Students are split into groups and each assigned a supervisor who will give them a batch of research papers and help to answer questions on those papers
	Six lectures on research methods


         Weeks 3 to 9

         	Speakers from research groups in the department give an overview of their group's activities
	Students will receive one session per week of tutorial support on the literature survey
	One to three workshops will be held covering selected topics pertaining to academic writing, presentation skills, and statistical validation of research hypotheses.


         Week 10

         	Each student hands in an individual report on their version of the Literature survey. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction

         
 
          
          
         Lectures and seminars.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment component:

         	Research Review (100%). 


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined.

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources

         
 
          
          
         The exact readings will vary from year to year and will be made available via Moodle.
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
