 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Syllabus ›› 209P - Cognitive Systems and Intelligent Technologies 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       COMP209P - Cognitive Systems and Intelligent Technologies

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         	Code	COMP209P 
	Year	1or 2
	Prerequisites	None 
	Term	2
	Taught By	John Dowell (66.6%) 
 Denise Gorse (33.3%) 
	Aims	To introduce the study and development of intelligent systems, including the correspondence with natural cognitive systems and the design of smart tools. 
	Learning Outcomes	Students will understand foundational theories, methods, and technologies involved in artificial intelligence and in cognitive systems science. They will recognize the primary themes and issues involved in creating intelligent technologies and smart tools. The structural dimensions of intelligent agents will be examined in relation to the capabilities they support in different environments. Symbolic and sub-symbolic architectures will be examined and contrasted. Students will understand the theoretical and technical challenges involved in modelling and building systems that can reason, solve problems, acquire and use knowledge, make decisions, perceive their environment and communicate in natural language. They will learn how computational models can be used to help us understand human intelligence and about the smart technologies that extend that intelligence. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Content:

         
 
          
          
         

         1. Introduction: cognition, systems and intelligence
2. Intelligent agents
3. Problem solving systems
4. Neural Networks and symbolic architectures
5. Knowledge representation systems
6. Decision making systems
7. Vision systems
8. Natural language systems
9. Computational models of human reasoning and action
10. Applications

         
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Method of Instruction:

         
 
          
          
         Lecture presentations with associated seminars.
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Assessment:

         
 
          
          
         The course has the following assessment components:

         	2-hour 'seen' examination  - i.e. written examination by prior disclosure (100%)


         To pass this course, students must:

         	Obtain an overall pass mark of 40% for all components combined. 

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Resources:

         
 
          
          
         Russell and Norvig, (2010) Artificial Intelligence: A modern approach. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Teaching Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
