 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         CS PhD social event: Bletchley Park day trip
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Earlier this month 20 PhD students from various groups of Department of Computer Science enjoyed themselves from an interesting and meaningful day-out trip to the Bletchley park and the National Museum of Computing. After being welcomed by the staff of the park, they learned the history and importance of the park from a mini-lecture; then were showed around for the early development of code-breaking there, and principles of the famous Engima machine and the Bombe machine.

After relaxing and dining in the atmospheric Victorian Mansion, visitors broke into small groups to discover more in war-time postoffice, the Toy museum, the classic garage, the boat-model exhibition, the wireless exhibition, and most importantly, the small courtyard where Dr. Alan Turing lived and his life-story exhibition.

Later the student visitors gathered around to head to the National Museum of Computing, which also resides in the park. Seeing all kinds of computing machines dating back to 1940s, they were astonished by the rich collections of the museum, the evolvement of technology, as well as how smart machines could be in early ages. The Colossus, the first electronic, digital, and programmable computer runs at the speed of 12.2m/s rather than the familiarized GHz. One student who tried to lift a giant 0.6m diameter ring but failed as it’s too heavy, learned later that the ring was actually part of a hard-disk with a storage of 8MB on each side.

The trip was well-worthy the cost and time and received highly recognition when it’s over. Not only it’s a good attempt for getting students outside their offices and labs to embrace spring while visiting something they’re really interested in, also most of them made new friends and shared experience in research.  
 
         Shuai Yuan
MPhil/PhD in Computer Science,
www.yuan-shuai.info
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 23 Apr 12 14:46 
         
 
          
          
           Next: CS Research Student wins... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL Academic Centre of...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
