 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         CS Research Student wins Google Scholarship
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Larissa Dos Santos Romualdo, who is studying for a degree in the Computer Science Department, has been awarded a prestigious Google Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) Anita Borg Memorial Scholarship for 2012. 
 
         This scholarship was created by Google’s to mark the life and vision of Dr. Anita Borg (1949-2003): 
 
         "Dr. Anita Borg (1949-2003) devoted her adult life to revolutionizing the way we think about technology and dismantling barriers that keep women and minorities from entering computing and technology fields. Her combination of technical expertise and fearless vision continues to inspire and motivate countless women to become active participants and leaders in creating technology." 
 
         Scholarships are awarded based on the strength of candidates’ academic performance, leadership experience and demonstrable passion for computer science. This year, 40 students (this number includes BSc, Masters and PhDs) from EMEA were selected as Google scholars. 
 
         Larissa is a member of the Software Systems Engineering group.  Currently she is conducting research in Smart Cities - specifically researching on middleware architecture for city-wide delivery of services. Her primary supervisor is Professor Anthony Finkelstein. 
 
         Speaking of her award Larissa said: "I am very pleased to be one of the recipients of the Google Anita Borg Scholarship. Winning this scholarship is very rewarding and a very important recognition to me. I have a huge passion for computer science and I am proud to be a woman in the field of engineering. I am fortunate enough to receive this scholarship and to be a PhD student at UCL at the same time. UCL was the first University in England to admit women on equal terms with men, and I believe this is the ideal academic Institution to any woman who aspires to be part of the next generation of female leaders." 
 
         Larissa has been invited to join around 100 fellow scholars at The Google Scholars' Retreat which will be held in Zurich in  June. 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 30 Apr 12 13:58 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Peter Kirstein joins... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: CS PhD social event:...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
