 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         CS Research Student awarded Google Fellowship
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Jie Xiong, Research Student and member of the Networks Research Group at UCL-CS has been awarded a competitive Google European Doctoral Fellowship in Wireless Networks for 2012.  Jie’s nomination, titled "Leveraging Multiple-antenna Access Points for Localisation and Wireless Security" was exemplary, championed by an expert panel of research scientists and distinguished engineers within Google who reviewed applications from across Europe.  Jie's primary research advisor is Dr Kyle Jamieson of UCL-CS. 
 
         On being awarded the Fellowship, Jie said: "It's a great honor to be awarded a Google European Doctoral Fellowship. The fellowship provides me an excellent and unique opportunity to interact with outstanding Google researchers and motivates me to strive even harder in the next stages of my research." 
 
         The prestigious Google European Doctoral Fellowship Programme was created to support outstanding Doctoral students doing exceptional research in Computer Science or closely related areas, and Jie will receive support for his studies for up to three years.  Fellowships are available to PhD applicants or students at any stage of their research at universities chosen by Google. 
 
         See the Google Fellowship site here.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 18 Jun 12 10:18 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Fugue participates in... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Bill Langdon's letter...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
