 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         CS research wins best paper award
 
         
          
          

         
 
         A paper by Nicolas Mellado and Niloy J. Mitra (of UCL-CS) and Dror Aiger (Google Inc.) has won "Best Paper" award at the Symposium on Geometry Processing, a premier venue for Geometry Processing. 
 
         The paper describes Super4PCS, an algorithm for the fast global registration of point-clouds via smart indexing. 
 
         This work has been developed in the context of large-scale scene acquisition, to register pairs of point-clouds in the same 3D frame by estimating their relative rotation and translation. Common approaches such as the Iterative Closest Point (ICP) algorithm requires input pose, while the state-of-the-art global registration algorithms (eg. 4-Points Congruent Sets algorithm by Dror Aiger, Niloy J. Mitra and Daniel Cohen-Or) are slow to run when there are many data points. 
 
         The Super4PCS algorithm developed by the team is optimal, i.e., runs in linear time on any number of data points. It is also output sensitive in the complexity of the alignment problem based on the (unknown) overlap across scan pairs, and does not require an initial pose between them. This results in significant speed-up over alternative approaches and allows unstructured efficient acquisition of scenes at scales previously not possible. 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 15 Jul 14 12:58 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Justyna Petke, Bill... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Dr Nicolas Courtois on a...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
