 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         The UCL Department of Computer Science

        
 
         
         
        UCL Computer Science department is a global leader in research in experimental computer science. In the most recent Research Assessment Exercise, 80% of our work was rated world-leading or internationally excellent. Our specialities include virtual environment work, network and systems research, and human-computer interactions. In the UCL tradition, we are multidisciplinary – sharing ideas and resources from other departments and the wider world to incorporate into our novel research. 
 
        We are an open, friendly department, open to ideas and open to people. We ask questions and we challenge ideas. We believe in our subject and in its potential. Our degree programmes recognise the ever-increasing importance of computer systems in fields such as commerce, industry, government and science. We offer Bachelor’s and Master’s taught degrees, and postgraduate research qualifications within all of our research interests. Throughout its history the department has had a big impact on the European computing landscape – notably, establishing the first connection to the precursor of the Internet outside the United States. We continue to create innovative technologies that change lives with computers.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
