 
   
  	 
      	 
          
            DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE 
 Dr. Licia Capra  
          
 	 

 
	 
      	 Home   Profile   Research   Publications   Teaching 

 
	
	
       
      	 
           
           Undergraduate Tutoring 2012/2013
 
           Preparation for Internship and Employment
 
           	 Organisers
 
	Licia Capra
 2nd Year Coordinator
 UCL/CS Department	Robert Donovan
 Careers Adviser
 UCL Careers Service

 
            The “Preparation For Internship and Employment” programme, organised by the UCL/CS Department in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service, is a programme specifically designed for second year undergraduate CS students. Its aim is to prepare students for summer internships and, more broadly, for their future employment. The programme consists of 3 sessions. For the academic year 2012-2013, the programme schedule is the following:
 
           	 Date: Thursday 25th October 2012
 Time: 4pm-6pm
 Room: Anatomy JZ LT
 	 Session 1
 Roadmap to Career Opportunities
 
 
	 Date: Thursday 15th November 2012
 Time: 11am-1pm
 Room: Bedford Way G03
 	 ession 2
 CV Writing for IT and Internship Applications
 
 
	 Date: Thursday 6th December 2012
 Time: 4pm-6pm
 Room: UCL Careers Service
 
 	 Session 3
 Preparing for Interviews and Assessment Centres
 
 

 
           
 Session 1 – Roadmap to Career Opportunities.  The aim of the first session is to offer students an overview of the wide range of opportunities and career paths they may follow after their degree, both in academia, in IT and outside.  Various representatives from different job sectors will be present to describe their experience. Want to know more? The UCL Careers Service organises various events/fairs of high interest to computer science students (e.g., investment banking fair, engineering fair, IT and Technology fair). Check out this year's programme.
 
 
           Session 2 – CV Writing for IT and Internship Applications. The aim of the second session is twofold: to teach students the art of CV writing, and to explore online applications. The CV writing part will be specifically targeted to IT careers. 
           General CV writing information is available on the UCL Careers Service website, together with plenty of other 
           useful careers-related information. 
             
           Session 3 – Preparing for Interviews and Assessment Centres. The aim of the last session is to prepare students for interviews, both from a technical and non-technical perspective. Various recruiters from industry will be present to give their hints and tips. Mock interviews will be conducted in small groups, lead by a real employer. 
 
            
          
 
          

 

   
 
