 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         DUCO awards 2nd Year Undergrad cash prizes
 
         
          
          

          
          

         
 
         We were delighted to welcome award winning fintech company DUCO to award their sponsored cash prizes for the best Computer Science 2nd Year Undergraduate Proof of Concept Projects. 
 
         The Department is grateful to DUCO for their support and we thank UCL alumnus Dr Christian Nentwich, CEO and Co-Founder of DUCO, and Mr Michael Marconi, Co-Founder of Duco, for joining us at our prizegiving and announcing the project Guy’s and St Thomas’ Personalised Treatment Pathway & Patient Journal Project as the winner. Our congratulations go to Alexander Gamble, Henry Scott-Green and Iustin Sibiescu as winning students. In second place was the project Orange Labs Sensors API and students Gulliver Anslow-Johnson, Victoria Koh and Johan Mouritsen, and in third place was the project CTSNet Robotics and students Ed Collins, Kirthi Mandalapu Muralikrishnan and Thomas Page. 
 
         We were also pleased to announce our annual App Award winners - this year around 220 students with some 70 apps in total have worked in teams with real world clients to develop app technologies as part of their programming and software engineering work.
 
         We thank to UCL Faculty of Engineering and UCL Advances who have come on board to sponsor and manage the apps publishing cycle for UCL faculties. We are also very pleased to have a great collaboration with the British Computing Society, and were delighted that project teams were awarded certificates by Dalim Basu, Chairman of the British Computing Society, North London Branch. 
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 12 Jun 15 13:41 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Term closes with 4th... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Gordana Novakovic to...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
