 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         Echoes Around The Home
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Echoes Around The Home is a cross disciplinary project conceived and led by Dr Nicholas Firth, UCL Computer Science Research Associate and member of UCL's Centre for Medical Image Computing (CMIC).
 
         In the last two years, major advances in voice recognition have led to an increasing number of people using voice-controlled devices in their homes. The Amazon Echo is currently the most popular voice-controlled device in the home, with 5.1 million devices sold by November 2016.
 
         The Echo’s features include responding to commands and questions to carry out such actions as to playing music, reading an audiobook and reciting calendar appointments. The cheapest model is currently £50.
 
         Dr Firth – with social scientist collaborators Prof. Mary Pat Sullivan (Nipissing University Applied and Professional Studies) and Emma Harding (UCL Institute of Neurology), neuropsychologist Prof. Sebastian Crutch (UCL Institute of Neurology) and computer scientist Prof. Daniel Alexander (UCL Computer Science) – will trial the use of the Amazon Echo by people living with dementia.
 
         The aim is to increase independence and wellbeing by providing simplified access to entertainment, diaries and knowledge, whilst also acting as a means for data collection to monitor disease progression. This project has been funded by a Social Science Plus+ award from The Collaborative Social Science Domain UCL and will begin installing Echo’s in late March.
 
         For this study, people with Posterior Cortical Atrophy, a rare form of Alzheimer’s disease which primarily affects visual perception, and a caregiver, will be asked to install and use the Amazon Echo at home. During the study, technical support will be available to ensure that the Echo is properly installed and there are no technical barriers to its use.
 
         Subscriptions to music streaming services and audiobooks, and access to smart lights which can be turned on using voice commands will be offered. If people already have smart televisions installed in the home, voice commands will be offered for these too.
 
         Short interviews carried out before using the Echo will measure independence and use of home technology and a similar interview after the study will provide details of how practices may have changed. Using the Echo’s recordings, the project will use computational analysis techniques to describe the content and accuracy of interactions with the Echo.
 
         The team involved hope that these analyses will enable us to measure subtle changes in memory and verbal skills over a prolonged period within the home.
 
         For further information about this study, or for further details of involvement please see http://antenna-ds.co.uk/projects.html.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 06 Feb 17 14:46 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Google backing boosts... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Paul Samet, 1930 - 2017

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
