 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Prospective Students
      ›› PhD Programme ›› Entry Requirements 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Entry Requirements

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          	Entry Requirements


	English Language Requirements



 
          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Entry Requirements

        
 
         
         
        	In common with other departments in the UK, we normally expect candidates wishing to embark on a research degree to have a bachelor’s degree with first or upper second-class Honours, and/or a distinction at Master’s level, in an appropriate subject.  
	Applicants with other qualifications and sufficient relevant experience and background knowledge may be considered.
	A note about transcripts:  any transcripts, certificates or references provided as part of your application must be in English. Official translations must be verified by your original university, a solicitor or official translation service such as that provided by the British Council. Translations must also be accompanied by a certified copy in the original language. 


        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         English Language Requirements (needed in addition to above requirements)

        
 
         
         
        

        
         All students whose first language is not English must be able to provide recent evidence that their spoken and written command of the English language is adequate for the programme.  
         
 
         The required evidence may be one of the following:

         	Substantial education (minimum 12 months) or work experience (minimum 18 months) conducted in English in a majority English speaking country and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment.
	A recently obtained acceptable English language qualification or test result. The qualification or test result must have been awarded no more than two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment.


         UCL reserves the right, in individual circumstances, to specify an additional language requirement for an applicant. 
 
         Accepted documentation includes 
 
         GCSE English Language: 
Pass at grade C 
 
         IELTS: International English Language Testing System: 
Overall grade of 6.5 with a minimum of 6.0 in each of the subtests 
 
         Test of English as Foreign Language (TOEFL) iBT
 
         Overall grade of 92 with a minimum of 24/30 in reading and writing, and 20/30 in speaking and listening. 
 
          
 
         Other English Language Qualifications: 
 
         Please see the main UCL English Language Requirements page for the full list of accepted English Language qualifications.  

        
 
        
 
        

        
         Please note that our courses require a level of English equivalent to the "UCL Standard Level".  

        

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        

        
         

         	Applicants are required to meet both the entry requirements and the English Language requirements separately.  


	Each applicant will be considered on an individual basis. 


	The grades and qualifications listed above are intended to give an approximate level of achievement we believe you will need to succeed on the programme.  These are for guidance only and are in addition to UCL's general entry requirements. 


         

        
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Department of Computer Science, UCL (University College London)
 Malet Place, London WC1E 6BT, UK
 Phone: 020 7679 7214 (+44 20 7679 7214)
 Fax: 020 7387 1397 (+44 20 7387 1397) 
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Research Student Administrator 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
