 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         EPSRC Autonomous Manufacturing Research Grant
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL Computer Science is contributing to an EPSRC funded research on Aerial Additive Building Manufacturing (Aerial ABM).  The research will develop an aerial robotic construction system that enables aerial robots to 3D print building structures autonomously.
 
         Additive Building Manufacturing (ABM) is already being trialled in many parts of the world by the construction industry. It involves the use of large robots on a building site that extrude building materials to construct buildings, similar to a 3D printer. This process has the advantage of reducing construction times, material and transport costs and easing traffic and environmental impacts. These technologies also have the potential to improve safety in the building industry.
 
         According to the International Labour Organisation, at least 60,000 people are killed every year on construction sites - around one death every 10 minutes. However, current approaches to ABM are all ground-based, only operating in easily accessible locations, where their ability to adapt to diverse site conditions are limited. The research team aims to miniaturise ABM and provide it with aerial capabilities so that it can be more mobile, able to manufacture complex building structures and adapt to diverse site scenarios. This miniaturisation will also enable parallel production, where swarms of aerial printers working together could potentially reduce construction times.
 
         The aerial robots would be able to fly above difficult ground conditions and land at a construction site where they could work together to construct a building from scratch. The research will enable safer construction in hard-to access and dangerous conditions often faced in construction work at-height and post-disaster reconstruction.
 
         Co-investigators Robert Stuart-Smith and Professor Mandayam Srinivasan will lead UCL’s contribution while Imperial College’s Director of the Aerial Robotics Lab, Dr Mirko Kovac is Principle Investigator. The multi-million pound grant involves researchers from a number of institutions including Imperial College London, the University of Bath, University College London and the Architectural Association School of Architecture. Industrial partners on the projects are leaders in construction, robotics and 3D printing and include the BRE Trust, Buro Happold, Cementation Skanska, Dyson Limited and Ultimaker BV.  A podcast announcement on Imperial College’s website provides further information here. 
 
         Contact for further details:  
 
         Prof Mandayam A Srinivasan - mandayam.srinivasan@ucl.ac.uk 
 
         Robert Stuart-Smith - rss@robertstuart-smith.com 
 
         Dr Vijay Pawar - v.pawar@ucl.ac.uk 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 05 Feb 16 10:56 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL's Data Science... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCLB spinout Satalia...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
