 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students ›› Essential Information 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Essential Information for Current Students

        
 
         
         
        All students are required to familiarise themselves with the regulations and policies for their specific programme of study, as well as the university's overarching academic regulations.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Information for New Students

        
 
         
         
        If you are new to the department and to UCL then we recommend that you read the following guides to help you acclimatise and to prepare for your studies.  

        	Essential Information for New Students (UCL guide)
	Induction Week Timetables 
	Information for Affiliate Students


        If you require any advice when you arrive please see your Programme Administrator in the first instance. 
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Academic Manual

        
 
         
         
        The UCL Academic Manual contains all of the regulations and policies which relate to the approval, delivery, assessment and monitoring of UCL's programmes. The Student Guide to the Academic Manual summarises some of the most important information relevant for students in the form of an FAQ. Students are ecouraged to familarise themselves with the regulations relevant to their programme of study.

        	UCL Academic Manual
	UCL Academic Manual - Student Guide


        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science Student Handbooks

        
 
         
         
        The Computer Science Student Handbooks provide a wealth of information to guide students through their programme of study and to help access sources of advice and support. The information covers the length and breadth of the student journey, from making initial module selections right through to how degree awards are decided. It includes details of academic requirements, notification and explanation of codes, regulations, policies and procedures, as well as the other aspects of University life – sources of help and support, student representation, social opportunities, and the facilities available to students. 
 
        All students should familiarise themselves with their Student Handbook:

        	Student Handbook for Undergraduate Programmes (2016-17)
	Student Handbook for Postgraduate Programmes (2016-17)
	Changelog


        Please notify any corrections/suggested amendments to David Howells d.howells [at] ucl.ac.uk

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Schemes of Award

        
 
         
         
        The UCL Academic Manual sets out the rules and regulations that apply to all programmes. Derrogated rules that apply specifically to the Faculty of Engineering Sciences' undergraduate programmes are given in the Faculty of Engineering Sciences (FES) Scheme of Award for Undergraduate Programmes. 
 
        Within the department, each programme has its own Scheme of Award that describes the rules and regulations that apply for that specific programme. This includes, for example, which of the modules are core, whether the assesments and modules are non-condonable, any non-standard pass marks, and what is required to achieve a degree award and classification.

        	FES Scheme of Award for Undergraduate Programmes


        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Health and Safety

        
 
         
         
        Everyone in the UCL Computer Science community should know how to stay safe and what to do in case of emergency. The Student Handbook provides information on Health and Safety at Computer Science. Additional information on can be found via the Health and Safety pages.

        	Computer Science Health and Safety 


        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Feb 2017 and is maintained by 
      Chris Neil 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
