 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Student Information ›› FAQ for Non-CS Students 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
         Introduction
 This page is intended undergraduate students throughout UCL who are taking Computer Science modules. If, having read this information, you have any questions please contact Teaching and Learning Manager (Computer Science). 
 
 The majority of the information you will need can be accessed via the Students pages on the Computer Science website. 
 
        FAQs
 1. Where is the Department of Computer Science?  Malet Place Engineering Building (MPEB) (see map). The Computer Science Departmental Office is on the 5th floor.  
 
        2. Where can I find information about CS module(s) I am taking? See Syllabi. In some cases there are links from the syllabi pages to further notes provided by the lecturers. 
 
        3. How will I be kept informed of teaching arrangements or any changes to do with the courses I am taking?  It is your responsibility to sign up for the Moodle page for each module. You can access the quick guide to Moodle. 
 
        Information about revision lectures, examinations and other important details are posted on the students pages on the CS website, so please make sure you check them regularly. 
 
         4. Where are the Computer Science timetables? Access to information on the timetabling of Computer Science modules is on our timetable page. Inevitably, changes to the timetable and room bookings do sometimes happen. You should check your personal timetable via the UCL online timetable regularly. 
 
        5. When are Computer Science courses examined?  Most CS modules include a writen examination, held during the main summer examinations period (May). These exams are organised by the UCL Examinations Section, and details of the dates, times and venues should be included in the examination timetable that you access via Portico in the spring. 
 
        Most lecturers provide a special 'revision' lecture just before the examination period. The timetables for these classes will be published in due course at this link 
 
         6. What are the rules for Computer Science coursework, examinations, resits etc? Please have a good look at our guidelines on the Assessment of CS courses. This gives information on all aspects of assessment. It is strongly recommended that you read the parts relevant to you. 
 
         7. Where are past examination papers? See Past Examination Papers. 
 
        8. Can I use the Computer Science labs and printers? If you are entitled to a CS computer account, and use the student labs, you will be able to do a certain amount of printing in the department please see Information on printing in the CS department. 
 
         9. What else should I read? Have a look at How to survive the Computer Science Department (mostly written for CS students but also useful for you). 
 
        10. Who should I contact if I have any academic-related questions? The External Students' Tutor is Dr Jens Krinke j.krinke@cs.ucl.ac.uk
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
