 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help
      ›› TYPO3 ›› Files and TYPO3 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
        

        
	Old readers start here

	General Principles

	The TYPO3 "Backend"

	Content Elements

	Editing Content

	Rich Text Editor

	Inserting Images

	Managing Links

	Formats and Styles

	Creating New Pages

	Page properties

	Moving and Copying pages

	The UCL-CS Templates

	Adding Content

	Dividers

	The "Text and Images" element
	Files and TYPO3

	Automatic Menus

	Someone is editing my page!

	Cutting and Pasting

	Spelling check

	Managing your work

	Tracking changes

	Rolling Back

	Hiding pages

	Hiding content elements

	Working in a Draft Workspace

	Previewing your draft

	Publishing from the Draft Workspace

	Browser set-up

	TYPO3 v4.5 - The main changes

	TYPO3 v4.5 - Some more changes

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Introduction

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Files

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Images

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Extensions

	Training


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig. 1. The file tree
            	


          

         

          
           
          In TYPO3 pages are actually entries in a database rather than individual HTML files. However, TYPO3 does use files for some purposes, most commonly for storing images that are to be included in pages.

          In order to manage files in TYPO3 you need to use the Filelist module.

            

          The page tree will now be replaced by the file tree (see Fig. 1). Clicking the folder icon () produces a menu offering various folder management options (Rename, New etc.). Clicking the name of the folder produces a list of the files it contains - like that below.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
               Fig. 2. List of files in a folder
              	


            

           

          

         

          
           
          As always, clicking the icon next to a file produces a menu. In this case it has options to copy, move and delete files and so on. Clicking the name of the file opens it or activates it in some way.

          Often you will want to upload files, especially images, from your PC. To begin this, click the upload icon () which will produce the form shown in Fig. 3.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig. 3. File upload form.
            	


          

         

          
           
          Using this screen  you can:

          	Select how many files you wish to upload;
	Decide whether you wish to overwrite existing files (if you decide not to overwrite then any new versions will be re-named);
	Click "Browse ..." to open a window on your PC that will allow you to select a file;
	Click "Upload files" to start the file transfer.

 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Organising your files

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig. 4. The TYPO3 search box
            	


          

         

          
           
          As always, if you have a lot of files it is best to structure them using filers, sub-folders etc. To create a sub-folder click on the parent folder in the file tree (see Fig. 1) and select New. For example, to create another sub-folder of research you would start by clicking on research. 
 
          Unfortunately it is all too easy for a file to become orphaned - to be present but no longer linked from anywhere in the web site. The right-most column in the file list (Fig. 2) is of some help here. This shows the number of links to the file that TYPO3 knows about. If this number is more than 1 then the file is definitely not orphaned. Unfortunately the converse is not true - a zero reference count does not always mean the file is orphaned. As a check, type the file's name into the TYPO3 search box at the top right of the screen (see Fig. 4). If this doesn't find it you can be pretty certain that the file is not linked to from within this website, (though it may be linked to from an external website).
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Linking to files

        
 
         
         
        Inserting links to files works the same way as linking to pages etc. See the section on linking.
 
         
       
 
        
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
