 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Forgotten Facebook friends could still be snooping on you
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Forgotten Facebook friends who don't appear in your friends list could still be snooping on you from time to time, new research shows. 
 
         In their research paper, "Your Facebook Deactivated Friend or a Cloaked Spy?," UCL-CS student Shah Mahmood and Chair of Information Communication Technology Prof Yvo Desmedt have identified what they called a "zero-day privacy loophole." This enables a person to deactivate his own account and then later, upon reactivating the account and shedding his privacy "cloak," to quickly view his friends' profiles before disappearing into the darkness again. 
 
         The loophole takes advantage of the lengthy and complicated process of getting rid of a Facebook account. The social network persuades many would-be exiles to take only the half-step of deactivating their accounts, in effect putting the accounts into hibernation instead of deleting them altogether. The concept behind the exploit is akin to the cloaking method used in "Star Trek," the researchers said, "where Badass Blink or Jem'Hadar has to uncloak (be visible), even if only for a moment, to open fire." 
 
         When account holders deactivate their accounts, they "become invisible." They no longer appear on others' lists of friends, nor can others "unfriend" them. And, as the paper notes, "Facebook provides no notification about the activation or deactivation of friends to its users." By reactivating their accounts, malicious Facebook users can snoop on their friends' profiles when it's convenient, and then immediately deactivate, leaving no trace. 
 
         The loophole exploited by the "deactivation attack" becomes particularly worrisome if you consider who may be taking advantage of it. The researchers argued that this type of covert Facebook snooping would be "attractive" to marketers, background-checking agencies, governments, hackers, spammers, stalkers or criminals. 
 
         Because the perpetrator may only reactivate his account for a very brief period of time, the attack is also difficult to detect. The researchers said the deactivation attack could be mitigated if Facebook notified users of their friends' deactivations and reactivations, or if it flagged accounts that frequently de- and reactivated. Facebook did not respond to a request for comment. 
 
         www.theregister.co.uk/2012/03/20/facebook_deactivated_friend_zero_day/
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 26 Mar 12 13:56 
         
 
          
          
           Next: CS Book Launch: Digitized >

          
 
          
           < Previous: CREST wins £6.65 million...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
