 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         From the BBC Micro to micro:bit and beyond
 
         
          
          

         
 
         An article in ACM Interactions has celebrated the UCL & BBC collaboration that has brought the Micro:bit and now Magic Cubes to the fore in the coding challenge for the 21st Century. 
 
         Yvonne Rogers, Director of UCLIC (UCL Interaction Centre), Venus Shum (Research Fellow), Nicolai Marquardt (Associate Professor), Susan Lechelt (Ph.D. student) and Rose Johnson (visiting researcher) have been instrumental in first joining forces with the BBC to create the MakeMe cube; a simple flatpack construction kit, comprising six pieces, intended for assembly into a cube. When shaken, it would change colour depending on the speed and the direction of the shaking motion. The ultimate challenge was to shake the cube into a multicolored light show. 
 
         The UCL team then continued its own research agenda, investigating more extensively how to teach the IoT to young children. They began working on a second cube, SenseMe, that was designed to have more sensing and actuating functionality with scope for on-board coding. These innovations would enable the exploration and measurement of many aspects of the world. Following the same design philosophy of MakeMe, the sides of the cube provide different components of a computing device, but with a much more powerful microcontroller, more sensors, and Bluetooth radio.
 
         The team switched their efforts to conceptualize the coding, making, and creating activities in terms of an overarching framework called digital fluency. This represents the core set of skills necessary to empower people to see themselves as creators and shapers of modern technology, rather than just its consumers. Whereas the initial research with Engduino and MakeMe demonstrated how children learn to code, make, and create together, UCL’s current research is pushing the envelope further by exploring how extending these activities and more can enable children to develop what we call the Four Cs of digital fluency: computational, critical, connected, and creative thinking.
 
         The kit got a new name: MagicCubes. The environmental and personal sensors, in addition to being colorful and engaging actuators, are intended to enable children to explore the world of data in everyday contexts. By connecting several cubes together, children can design their own Internet of Things applications, discover mechanisms for ensuring privacy and security, and explore abstract systems-thinking concepts, such as interdependence and emergent system behaviors.
 
         Further testing in classroom settings has shown that the tangible and personally meaningful nature of these activities can facilitate thinking about the abstract world of complex computational concepts, motivating children to think independently about the real-world implications of modern technology and inspiring higher levels of engagement and creativity. The Magic Cubes are also proving a hit in special school settings, for children with autism and learning difficulties.
 
         The full article is available here.
 
         More about the MakeMe project is here.
 
         More about UCL Computer Science's school's outreach activities is here.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 09 Mar 17 11:00 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Computer Science winners... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Andrea Bittau memorial...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
