 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help
      ›› TYPO3 ›› General Principles 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
        

        
	Old readers start here
	General Principles

	The TYPO3 "Backend"

	Content Elements

	Editing Content

	Rich Text Editor

	Inserting Images

	Managing Links

	Formats and Styles

	Creating New Pages

	Page properties

	Moving and Copying pages

	The UCL-CS Templates

	Adding Content

	Dividers

	The "Text and Images" element

	Files and TYPO3

	Automatic Menus

	Someone is editing my page!

	Cutting and Pasting

	Spelling check

	Managing your work

	Tracking changes

	Rolling Back

	Hiding pages

	Hiding content elements

	Working in a Draft Workspace

	Previewing your draft

	Publishing from the Draft Workspace

	Browser set-up

	TYPO3 v4.5 - The main changes

	TYPO3 v4.5 - Some more changes

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Introduction

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Files

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Images

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Extensions

	Training


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
        
        
         
         General Principles
 
        Icons and names
 
        The TYPO3 user interface employs many icons. Often an icon is associated with a name, for example:


        In general:

        	Clicking on the icon produces a menu;
	Clicking on the name activates or opens the object.


        Frontend and Backend
 
        TYPO3 is divided into two areas – the frontend and the backend. 

        	The frontend is the part which displays the website to the world. Generally you can assume that the frontend will get on happily with its work without your intervention;
	You use the backend whenever you create or edit pages or content. You need a TYPO3 account in order to access the backend. 

 
        Pages, Page Content and Templates
 
        When the frontend displays a page it constructs it from

        	A template provided by the site administrator;
	Content elements provided by editors such as you.


        The template provides a standard "look" to the page. It sets the general layout, provides headers, menus and so on. The templates that are used for the CS website are described below.

        A page must include one or more content element otherwise it will be empty. Content elements generally include text, images, tables etc.
 
        CS Templates
 
        The page illustrated to the right uses the "Two Column" template. With this template there are two areas of editable content which are shown shaded in blue: 

        	The left-hand column area is mainly for menus and links to other pages. (Note that, above it, there is an automatically generated menu showing sub-pages.)
	The main area is for content such as you are reading now.


        The other features on the page - the banner and menus at the top, the search boxes, the "bread-crumb" trail, the small print at the bottom and the "automatic" part of the left-hand menu are all added by TYPO3 when the page is viewed. 

        Four CS templates are available; 

        	A "Single Column" template which eliminates the left-hand menus;
	A "Two Column" template (as illustrated on the right);
	A "Two Column plus Image" template which adds a large image above the main content to the "Two Column" template;
	A "Two Column plus Navigation" template which adds "Prev" and "Next" links to the page. (This is the one used by the page you are reading).


        The templates use different colours in the 8 "areas" of the CS website. You need do nothing to choose the colour of your page. If the page is in the "Students" area it will use the "Students" colours and so on.
 
         
       
 
        
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
