 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› Getting Here 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Travelling to UCL and the Department of Computer Science

        
 
         
         
        Unless you have made prior arrangements, please do not drive to UCL - there is no parking available at UCL, and all on street parking in the Bloomsbury area is very expensive. We are within the congestion charging zone.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Getting to UCL by public transport

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         &amp;amp;amp;lt;/p&amp;amp;amp;gt; &amp;amp;amp;lt;p&amp;amp;amp;gt; 
 
        View larger map
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        The map on the right shows the immediate vicinity. The nearest underground stations are:

        	Euston Square (4 min walk, Metropolitan, Hammersmith and City & Circle Underground lines);
	Euston (5 mins, Mainline rail services, Northern & Victoria Tube lines);
	Goodge Street (2 mins, Northern line);
	Warren Street (5 mins, Northern & Victoria lines).


        The nearest mainline stations are:

        	Euston (walking distance);
	King's Cross St. Pancras (one stop on the Metropolitan & Circle lines).


        The UCL web site has additional maps and further information about public transport.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Finding the Department of Computer Science

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          UCL Computer Science is primarily based in the Malet Place Engineering Building (MPEB) (view on map). We also have staff and research students at 66-72 Gower Street (view on map) and 1 Euston Square (view on map). These buildings are all within walking distance of each other but please check which building you need in advance to avoid delays. 
 
          UCL maintains a "routefinder" system and this is useful for finding the route to and from public transport stations and around the campus.
 
          For the Malet Place Engineering Building (MPEB), the simplest way to find us is to enter UCL via the Malet Place gate (opposite Waterstones bookshop in Torrington Place). The MPEB is on the left after the Roberts (Engineering) Building. The Departmental Office reception area is on the 5th floor (5.25). 
 
          Visitors and deliveries can gain access to the MPEB via the Front Engineering Building (the first building on the left, at the Malet Place gate). On entering the Front Engineering Building, please go to the Reception (Ground floor) to sign in. You will then be shown to the lift area, take the lift to the 5th floor, turn right after exiting the lift, go straight on through the metal door, cross over using the link bridge (which leads into MPEB), walk straight through the lift lobby, and use the door on your left which leads you to the Computer Science Reception area. 
 
          Staff and students who have UCL ID/access cards can enter the MPEB directly via the automatic foyer doors and turnstiles. 
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Jill Saunders 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
