 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Google Research Fellowship for Aron Monszpart
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL-CS Research Student Aron Monszpart has been awarded the Google PhD Fellowship in Machine Perception to continue exploring how computers can learn about their environment from observing how humans use it. Aron is a member of the Virtual Environments and Computer Graphics Research Group. 
 
         Aron's research topic is 3D scene understanding with unseen priors. We as humans use many other cues than just vision to interpret our environment, something that's still lacking in scene understanding performed by machines. Aron's research investigates how simple assumptions about the environment can yield great returns in terms of the quality of knowledge that can be inferred. For example, real scenes should obey laws of physics or be recognised as environments that were designed by or are used by humans. Using physics laws to disambiguate partial 3D information is particularly useful, since we have reached a clear understanding of the processes shaping our immediate environment during the last 400 years! 
 
         In the end, in any real-life situation, one doesn't only see surfaces and materials "floating" in space, but can also guess why they are there and what purpose they have. This allows one to efficiently interpret the environment, despite parts being invisible (e.g., occluded) or even impossible to see (e.g., physical forces).  
 
         More about Aron's research can be found here. 
 
         Aron has just returned from Mountain View, California where he attended a "PhD fellowship summit".
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 09 Sep 16 08:13 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Peter O'Hearn elected... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Team of UCL undergrads...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
