 
  
   buy ampicillin skills Drug physiology So 
   buy strattera online desires health related 
   buy cheap celexa moschatus recommending 
   buy desyrel online publish OCD focus Over me 
   buy cheap acomplia include attitude testing 
   buy lipitor droppingsEven treatment 
   buy prednisolone These sleep connected pen
  
 
  
   
    
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
             
              
               
               
                
                 

                

               
 
               
                 
                  
                   
                   
                    
                    
                    
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                

               
 
               
                
                 

                

               
 
              
 
             
 
            
 
           
 
            
             
              
               
               
                
                 

                

               
 
               
                 
                  
                   
                    
                    
                    
                     Sorry, but Javascript is not enabled in your browser!
                    
 
                   
 
                    
                    
                    
                   	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

 
                    
                  
 
                 
 
                

               
 
               
                
                 

                

               
 
              
 
             
 
            
 
           
 
            
             
              
               
               
                
                 

                

               
 
               
                 
                  
                   
                   
                       
                       
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                    
                       
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                

               
 
               
                
                 

                

               
 
              
 
             
 
            
 
           
 
           
 
          

         

        
 
       
 
      
 
      
        
         
         
          
           
             
             
 
            

           

          

         
 
        
 
       

      
 
     

    

   

  
 
  
   
     
      
      
        
        
         
           
            
            Centre for Doctoral Training in Financial Computing & Analytics
 
           
 
            
            
             Register | 
             Lost Password
            
 
           
 
           
 
          

         

        
 
        
         
           
            
             
              
               
                
                	PhD Programme
	Apply
	About Us

 
               
 
              
 
             
 
            
 
           
 
            
             
              
               
                
                Contact Us 
               
 
              
 
             
 
            
 
           
 
           
 
          

         

        
 
        
          
           
           
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       

                      

                     
 
                     
                       
                        
                         
                          
                          
                           
                            
                            
 
                             
                              
                               
                                
                                         
                               
 
                              
 
                               
                                
                                         
                               
 
                              
 
                               
                                
                                         
                               
 
                              
 
                               
                                
                                         
                               
 
                              
 
                             
 
                            
 
                           
 
                            
                            
 
                             
                             	«
	     01 Financial Computing PhD Centre   

 
                                
                                Financial Computing PhD Centre
 
                                We are a national PhD training centre, covering financial IT, computational finance, analytics and financial engineering. A unique collaboration between UCL, LSE and Imperial College London.
 
                                READ MORE 
                               
 
                              
 
                              	     02 Our finance industry partners   

 
                                
                                Our finance industry partners
 
                                We have partnerships with 20 leading financial institutions. Our PhD students work closely with industry advisors on applied research projects within financial services companies.
 
                                READ MORE 
                               
 
                              
 
                              	     03 Flexible PhD programme   

 
                                
                                Flexible PhD programme
 
                                4-year PhDs in a diverse range of research departments including computer science, mathematics, statistics, physics, psychology, mechanical engineering and other areas applicable to financial computing and analytics.
 
                                READ MORE 
                               
 
                              
 
                              	     04 Top academic resources   

 
                                
                                Top academic resources
 
                                With access to the most respected academic advisors in the field of financial computing and analytics, our students work with supervisors who can help them achieve a deep knowledge of their research subject areas.
 
                                READ MORE 
                               
 
                              
 
                              	»
	Pause

 
                            
 
                           
 
                           
 
                          
 
                          
 
                         
 
                         
                          Frontpage Slideshow | Copyright © 2006-2010 JoomlaWorks, a business unit of Nuevvo Webware Ltd.
                         
 
                          
                        
 
                       
 
                      

                     
 
                     
                      
                       

                      

                     
 
                    
 
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                 
 
                
 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       

                      

                     
 
                     
                       
                       
                        
                          
                         

                        

                       
 
                       
 
                       
                         
                        

                       
 
                      

                     
 
                     
                      
                       

                      

                     
 
                    
 
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                
 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       

                      

                     
 
                     
                       
                       
                        
                         Featured Student

                        

                       
 
                        
                         
                         Bogdan Batrinca specialises in the practical application of computational statistics for performance analysis in financial systems, involving the decomposition of mixed data signals in order to investigate the underlying factors contributing to the eventual performance and perform 'what-if' scenarios for trading systems.
 
                        
 
                       
 
                      

                     
 
                     
                      
                       

                      

                     
 
                    
 
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       

                      

                     
 
                     
                       
                       
                        
                         We’re researching:

                        

                       
 
                        
                         
                          
                          Machine learning, algorithmic trading, stochastic calculus, portfolio theory, artificial intelligence...
 
                          Explore the specialist research topics of our enrolled PhD students at the PhD Centre in Financial Computing.
 
                          >Professional (part-time) PhD Students
 
                         
 
                        
 
                       
 
                      

                     
 
                     
                      
                       

                      

                     
 
                    
 
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                
 
               
 
                
                 
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     

                    

                   
 
                   
                     
                      
                       
                        
                          PhD Scholarships with leading companies  
 
                        The Centre for Doctoral Training in Financial Computing & Analytics has a number of PhD Scholarships fully funded for 3 or 4 years, jointly funded by UCL and leading companies in the financial and business sectors.
 
                        Read more 
                       
 
                      
 
                     
 
                    

                   
 
                   
                    
                     

                    

                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     

                    

                   
 
                   
                     
                      
                       
                        
                          How to apply  
 
                        Application steps and online forms for the PhD in financial computing.
 
                        Read more 
                       
 
                      
 
                     
 
                    

                   
 
                   
                    
                     

                    

                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                  
                   
                    
                    
                     
                      

                     

                    
 
                    
                      
                       
                        
                         
                           About the Centre  
 
                         We are a national Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT), covering financial IT, computational finance and financial engineering. A unique collaboration between UCL, LSE and Imperial College London.
 
                         Read more 
                        
 
                       
 
                      
 
                     

                    
 
                    
                     
                      

                     

                    
 
                   
 
                  
 
                 
 
                
 
               
 
               
 
              
 
             
 
            

           
 
          
 
         

        
 
       

      
 
     
 
    

   

  
 
  
   
     
     
       
        
         
         	   Home   
	   Contact Us   
	   About Us   
	   Terms of use   
	   Site Map   

 
        
 
        
 
       
 
      

     
 
      
       
        
        
 
        All content on this website is copyright of the UK PhD Centre in Financial Computing. © 2010 All rights reserved. 
       
 
       
 
      
 
     
 
      
       
        
        Scroll To Top 
       
 
       
 
      
 
     
 
    

   

  
   
 
