 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› Industry & Outreach 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Industry & Outreach

        
 
         
         
        We are a friendly department, open to ideas and open to people. Our outreach activities include partnerships with schools and teachers, alumni engagement, and relationships with businesses including leading global technology companies and start-ups, and prominent industry leaders and entrepreneurs. If you are interested in finding out more about our outreach contact Steve Marchant.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Advisory Board

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          Industry experts and technology leaders contribute to our teaching and learning, so that our recently updated and innovative Undergraduate Curriculum based around problem-solving and supported by industry projects makes our students more employable. 
 
          See here for more about our External Advisory Board members.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Alumni

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          In a recent survey 98% of alumni would recommend UCL Computer Science to a friend. Just by studying with us you’ve tapped into one of the most valuable and vibrant academic communities in the world, offering a wealth of expertise and opportunity. Keep in touch with us and find out what the Department can still do for you after you've graduated. 
 
          See here for more about our growing Alumni Network and events.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Entrepreneurship

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          Next door to Google, Facebook, British Library, Alan Turing Institute, The Crick, Silicon Roundabout and thousands of start-ups, UCL has a fine tradition of encouraging entrepreneurship. Recent high-profile spinouts like DeepMind, Satalia, MediaGamma, and Prediction.io (started by two PhD students) has led to an entrepreneurship ‘feeding frenzy’ amongst our students.  
 
          See here for more about our Entrepreneurship activity.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         School's Outreach

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          Our students are writing materials for a Coding Curriculum, suitable for use across schools to help younger children to learn to program from scratch, so HTML5, Python, C and JavaScript and are now accessible for Key Stages 2, 3 and 4. Our expertise is also training teachers to deliver a new Computing Curriculum - and schools are welcome to visit us.

 
          See here for more about our Schools Outreach work.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Students & Industry

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          Apps are sold by the billions globally; software engineers see app development as an increasingly key skill. We are preparing students for demands of the market place by hosting real world student projects with industry clients, and our partners enjoy associations with the next generation of software engineers, often providing sponsorship or supporting prizes.
 
          See here for more about Students & Industry.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         UCLU TechSoc

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          TechSoc is the only all-encompassing technology society at UCL. We help bridge the gap between students’ ambitions and potential careers; connecting them to those in the industry and to each other, with talks from across a range of industries, alongside career and alumni events.
 
          See here for more about TechSoc.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 23 Feb 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
