 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Information Security Degree certified as GCHQ Cyber Security standard
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL Computer Science's Masters Degree Programme in Information Security has been successfully certified to the 'GCHQ Certified Master's degree in General Cyber Security' standard.
 
         An assessment panel convened comprising of experts from the public and private sectors, as well as independent academics, and spent one and a half days assessing the 16 applications and engaging in serious debate before coming to their decisions. 
 
         Master’s degree programmes in cyber security can broaden the understanding of security concepts and technologies and provide a bridge between undergraduate education and careers in cyber security. However, with so many UK universities running Master’s degrees containing cyber security content, it can be difficult for students and employers alike to assess the quality on offer and identify the degree that best suits someone’s preferred career path.
 
         GCHQ's aim is to identify and recognise the very best cyber security education in the UK and UCL's MSc Information Security now joins an exclusive list of degree programmes that should attract high quality students from around the world; attract employers to recruit skilled staff and develop the cyber skills of existing employees; and attract prospective students to make better informed choices when looking for a highly valued qualification.
 
         MSc Information Security Programme Director Dr Emiliano de Cristofaro says:
 
         "This is a very important step for our programme as it allows us to join a global community of leaders in information security education. We look forward to continue moving forward together with this community and train the future engineers, researchers, and practitioners who will keep our systems and infrastructures secure, building on the excellence and rigour deeply ingrained in UCL Computer Science's fabric".
 
         Further details about the specific modules and programme path which has been certified, please see our Information Security programme page or contact the Programme Administrator.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 11 May 16 16:14 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL's Angela Sasse... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Professor Peter O’Hearn...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
