 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Installation created that ‘Sounds like DNA’ for play
 
         
          
          

         
 
          Dr Nicolas Gold, Software Systems Engineering Senior Lecturer at UCL-CS has produced an interactive installation, ‘Sounds like DNA’ in association with the art-science theatre piece ‘How to be Immortal’. In this piece of new writing, produced with advice from UCL medical researchers, Penny Dreadful Productions explore themes of immortality, genetics and cancer. The show is currently touring the UK. 
 
         The web installation (located at http://bit.ly/DNAsound ) was developed by Dr Nicolas Gold in collaboration with Penny Dreadful Productions, and generates music based on different genetic characteristics adjusted by the user. It interprets real, publicly available DNA samples that these characteristics have some connection to, and creates music that reflects a combination of them. For example, moving the ‘height’ slider, which controls rhythm, makes it more likely that more complicated rhythmic patterns will be introduced into the piece, while altering the ‘build’ slider makes the music thicker. 
 
         The writer of ‘How to be Immortal’ Mira Dovreni was keen to develop new ways for people to connect through science through their own experience. Her piece incorporates three true-life stories about love, death and DNA, ranging from the daughter of Henrietta Lacks coming to terms with her mother’s cellular immortality to a modern couple facing terminal illness. Live music and compositions based on DNA sequences, complemented by video animations give the audience a multimedia experience of these scientific facts. The interactive digital piece provided by Dr Gold completes this by allowing people to interact with genetic code themselves. 
 
         The show’s developers checked their ideas for incorporating science with UCL medical researchers with experience in cancer research, Gareth Ackland and Ana Gutierrez del Arroyo (UCL Clinical Physiology, Division of Medicine).  The scientists contributed ideas, proofed the script, clarified concepts for the writer, and are attending some of the post show question and answers sessions. They invited the team into their lab to see what working in a busy modern lab is really like, and let them see the immortal HeLa cells for themselves. 
 
         Mira Dovreni, the founder member and artistic director of Penny Dreadful Productions says: 
 
         <box class="indent"> 
 
         “I wanted to explore what genetics and DNA actually mean to people in a very personal way – and how these ‘scientific concepts’ underpin every aspect of our lives. I also wanted to try out new ways of experiencing science, so that the audience not only understands it intellectually but ‘feels it’. The stories and particularly the music seemed to be an ideal way of doing this. “ 
 
         </box> 
 
         Dr Nicolas Gold is a multi-instrumentalist in his free time as well as incorporating music computing in his research and teaching at UCL. He said: 
 
         <box class="indent"> 
 
         “While the music is of course an artistic interpretation, it is inspired by the science and created using algorithms. I hope it will help to spark mutual interest between musicians, engineers, and scientists.” 
 
         </box> 
 
         The show is currently touring the UK until 23rd March, and is at the Soho Theatre, London, from 4-9 Mar. Tickets are available online. 
 
         ‘How to be Immortal’ was developed with The Lowry and West Yorkshire Playhouse; created in association with The Albany, Harrogate Theatre and Jackson’s Lane; and assisted in development by UCL scientists: Gareth Ackland, Ana Gutierrez del Arroyo, Nicolas Gold, and medical historian Duncan Wilson.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 06 Mar 14 10:38 
         
 
          
          
           Next: CS Student is top... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Records of Web filtering...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
