 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Interactive design framework paper featured in CACM
 
         
          
          

         
 
         A paper by UCL-CS Professor of Geometry Processing Niloy Mitra, Nobuyuki Umetani (Autodesk) and Takeo Igarashi (The University of Tokyo), has been featured in the prestigious journal "Communications of the ACM". Nobuyuki Umetani, was a visiting student at UCL-CS in 2012 and a PhD candidate at University of Tokyo  when this work was done. The paper, entitled "Guided Exploration of Physically Valid Shapes for Furniture Design", describes an interactive framework for the design of furniture.  
 
         It is common to use computers to design shapes of physical objects such as furniture, but geometric modelling and the physical validity of shapes are conventionally considered independently. This makes creating aesthetically pleasing yet physically valid models challenging. 
 
          The proposed system allows the user to focus on the aesthetics of the design while helping to achieve physical realizability by providing active guidance. When one or more constraints is violated following an operation the system generates multiple suggestions involving both discrete and continuous changes to restore validity. Each suggestion is accompanied by an editing mode which simultaneously adjusts multiple parameters in a coordinated manner to maintain validity. 
 
         The paper describes a demonstration of the framework on plank-based furniture designs with nail-joints and frictional constraints. The system was used to design a range of examples and conduct a user study. Finally a physical prototype was produced to test the system's validity and usefulness. 
 
         The project's website provides further information plus a video of the system in use. For a technical perspective please see Marc Alexa's note.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 02 Sep 15 07:53 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Angela Sasse elected... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Artificial intelligence...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
