 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› MSc WSBDA ›› Lecturers 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Lecturers

        
 
         
         
        The MSc Web Science & Big Data Analytics is taught mainly by staff from the Computer Science department, and in particular by: 
 
        Dr. Jun Wang  
 
        Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) 
 
        Programme Director of MSc/MRes Web Science and Big Data Analytics 
 
        Research Interests 
 
        My research focus is on the areas of information retrieval, large scale data mining, multimedia content analysis, and statistical pattern recognition; current research covers both theoretical and practical aspects:

        	portfolio theory and statistical modeling of information retrieval,
	data mining and collaborative filtering (recommendation),
	web economy and online advertising,
	user-centric information seeking,
	social, “the wisdom of crowds”, approaches for content understanding, organisation, and retrieval,
	peer-to-peer information retrieval and filtering, and
	multimedia content analysis, indexing and retrieval.

 
        
Dr Shi Zhou 
 
        Lecturer and Royal Academy of Engineering/EPSRC Research Fellow 
 
        Research interests

        	Complex networks. The structure, function and evolution of large-scale complex networks in nature and society, with an emphasis on the information and communication networks, such as the Internet and the World Wide Web.
	Internet inter-domain routing. Measuring and inferring Internet topology and AS relationships; modelling and predicting BGP routing paths; analysing and optimisng routing polices.
	Cloud computing. Classification of cloud assets, Internet routing of cloud data.
 
	Network security. Immunology-inspired Internet defence and security of the Cloud.
	Epidemic spreading and immunisation. Critical hybrid epidemics, inclulding computer worm Conficker on the Internet and HIV virus in human body.
	Online social media analysis. Data sampling bias.
	Social networks.  Modelling, visualisation and prediction.

 
        Prof Ingemar Cox 
 
        Professor of Telecommunications
Head of Media Futures Research Group 
 
        http://mediafutures.cs.ucl.ac.uk/people/IngemarCox/ 
 
        Dr Emine Yilmaz 
 
        Lecturer 
 
        http://mediafutures.cs.ucl.ac.uk/people/emineyilmaz/ 
 
         
       

       To top
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
