 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Agendas ›› March 2nd 2005 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        Agenda for the SSCC meeting 2nd March 2005
 
        The meeting will be held at 1:00 pm in room 114 Foster Court.

        	Apologies for absence: Zarraq Ahmed (1st yr), Sylvain Marie (MScIS)
	Notification of any other business.
	Approval of minutes of the last meeting (3rd November 2004).
	Matters arising from previous minutes.
- Security of new bike sheds. These are being built in the area between the new building and the DMS Watson library. We can assume they will be as secure as any other bike rack in the college.
	Comments about facilities and usage of the New CS Building (Jill Saunders)
	Noise and poor behaviour in computer labs (Andrew Cox)
	Tutorial arrangements (Steve Hailes)
	Lecturers not responding to emails and being difficult to contact (Various)
	Huge workload in 4th year of MSci/MEng (4th year reps)
	Late return of marked coursework (Various)
	Upgrade to email service and availability of an IMAP service (4th year reps)
	1B10 - feedback on tests and practice exam questions (Many requests)
	Recycling bins for printers (Hina Keval)
	MISYS scholarships.
	Any Other Business


        Graham Roberts (Chair, SSCC)

        The next SSCC meeting will be in November 2005. In May there will be end of year wrap-up sessions for each undergraduate year and for the MSc groups, providing a forum similar to that of the SSCC.
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
