 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         Meet UCL's Haskelly team
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL Computer Science Undergraduates Janos Poteck, Marco Concetto Rudilosso and Marti Serra Vivancos have formed a Haskelly Team and are working on a Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Azure Cloud project, to build a Visual Studio Code extension which supports the teaching and learning of Haskell.
 
         The team are developing an Azure hosted toolset entitled SEAT (Scaffolding Exercise Automation Toolkit) which provides a valuable teaching assistant to the Academics and TA in the evaluation of the Haskell learning from students. Students simply submit assignments and resources to the code validation engine assessing the students learning and competencies.
 
         The Haskelly extension has been in development for the past four  weeks and the team had a superbly impressive demo which shown the VS code Extension working intellisense code completion and quickcheck. The team successfully developed the extension and have made it available for FREE in the Visual Studio Marketplace https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=UCL.haskelly. They have had over 2,000 downloads.
 
         Last week the team and their academic supervisor, Dr Dean Mohamedally had the opportunity of meeting Simon Peyton Jones at Microsoft Research Cambridge. Simon  is a major contributor to the design of the Haskell programming language, and a lead developer of the Glasgow Haskell Compiler (GHC).
 
         Simon is also co-creator of the C– programming language, designed for intermediate program representation between the language-specific front-end of a compiler and a general-purpose back-end code generator and optimiser. C– is used in GHC. During the meeting Simon shared his experiences and insight with the team and they discussed potential new features for the extension. 
 
          
 
         Read more on Microsoft’s Develop Blog at https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/uk_faculty_connection/2017/02/13/introducing-haskelly-extension-for-visual-studio-code/ 
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 13 Feb 17 10:35 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Can an algorithm be held... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Computer Science student...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
