 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Prospective Students ›› MEng Computer Science 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
          	Overview
	Course Structure
	Entry Requirements
	Fees & Funding
	Employability
	Contact
	Apply

 
           
            
             
             
              
              
               
              Through world-class teaching, MEng Computer Science students develop skills and intellectual rigour required for research and innovation, and the engineering expertise to create cutting-edge software systems. A strong focus on solving real-world problems is combined with building a deep understanding of computer science theory. 
 
              Applicants should note that eligibility to continue on the MEng Programme will be assessed at the end of Year 2. 
 
              Integrated Engineering Programme (IEP)

The IEP is an teaching framework that allows both specialist and interdisciplinary engineering education to be delivered intelligently across different engineering disciplines. It creates programmes that teach fundamental technical knowledge in tandem with interdisciplinary, research-based projects and professional skills. 
 
              Students still register for a core discipline, but alongside their studies in this discipline they also take part in activities that span across departments.  The programme is based on a number of innovative methods of teaching which encourage personal and professional development as part of the degree process.  
 
              MEng Computer Science with a Year Abroad 
 
              

              
               MEng students have the opportunity to study at one of our partner institutions in the third year. All of our partners are elite institutions with excellent academic reputations in Computer Science. Further information on studying abroad can be found 
               here.
              
 
              
 
               
             
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
              
              
               
               	2016/17
	2017/18

 
                
                 
                  
                  
                   
                  
                   2016/17

                  
 
                   
                   
                   
                   
                    
                    Year 1
 
                     
                      
                      
                       
                      
                       Year 1

                      
 
                       
                       
                      Students on the 1st year of their programme take 8 compulsory modules (each with a credit value of 0.5). Core modules are:

                      	ENGS101P -  Intergrated Engineering (term 1)
	ENGS102P -  Design and Professional Practice (term 1 & 2)
	COMP101P - Principles of Programming (term 1)
	COMP102P - Theory I (term 1)
	COMP103P - Object Oriented Programming (term 2)
	COMP104P - Theory II (term 2)
	COMP105P - Robotics Programming (term 2)
	MATH6301 - Discrete Mathematics (term 2)


                      For more information on 1st year modules see here.
 
                       
                     
 
                      
                    
 
                    Year 2
 
                     
                      
                      
                       
                      
                       Year 2

                      
 
                       
                       
                      Students on the 2nd year of their programme take 7 compulsory modules (each with a credit value of 0.5) and 1 minor module. Core modules are: 

                      	COMP201P - Networking and Concurrency (term 1)
	COMP202P - Logic and Database Theory (term 1)
	COMP203P - Software Engineering and Human Computer Interaction (term 1)
	COMP204P - Systems Engineering Project 1 (term 1)
	COMP205P - Systems Engineering Project 2 (term 2)
	COMP206P - Mathematics and Statistics (terms 1 & 2)
	COMP207P - Compilers (term 2)


                      Term 3 'How to Change the World'  
 
                      All second year students in the Engineering Sciences Faculty will be required to attend a two-week course entitled 'How to Change the World'. 
 
                      Global organisations (including the World Bank, the International Red Cross and Arup) will join us at UCL to present real-world problems, for which you will design solutions. During the fortnight, you will be provided with a programme of themed lectures, training workshops and group work, that move through themes of sustainability, equality and collaboration. You'll have a chance to interact with leaders from, and tackle problems provided by, some of the world's most international employers of engineers. 
 
                      Integrated Engineering Minors 
 
                      Students also choose a minor stream that allows them to gain a grounding in another engineering or relevant discipline or an interdisciplinary topic by offering a coherent set of three 0.5 course-unit modules allowing an introduction to a field as well as a opportunity to cover an interdisciplinary topic to reasonable depth. Information on minors can be found here.
 
                      For more information on 2nd year modules see here.
 
                       
                     
 
                      
                    
 
                    Year 3
 
                     
                      
                      
                       
                      
                       Year 3

                      
 
                       
                       
                      Students on the 3rd year of their programme take four core modules, two IEP minor modules (following on from the minor chosen in the second year of study), plus two further optional modules. Students should normally select options from the range of Computer Science Year 3 modules to ensure adequate preparation for advanced study. However students may choose one elective option, and this should be at an appropriate level. 
 
                      Core modules are:

                      	COMP3004 - Computational Complexity (term 1)
	COMP3005 - Operating Systems (term 1)
	COMP3095 - Research Methods (term 1)
	COMP3096 - Research Group Project (term 2)


                      For more information on 3rd year modules see here. 
 
                       
                     
 
                      
                    
 
                    Year 4
 
                     
                      
                      
                       
                      
                       Year 4

                      
 
                       
                       
                      Students on the 4th year of their programme carry out an individual project (credit value of 1) and 6 option modules (with a total credit value of 3). Students are strongly advised to choose their options from the range of CS 4th Year 4 'M' level modules. One elective (non-CS/ non-specialisation option) may be chosen, with the Department's approval. To complete the MEng programme students must have passed at least 3 credits at Masters' level, including the final year project. Core modules are:

                      	COMPM091 - Individual Project (terms 1 & 2)


                      For more information on 4th year modules see here.
 
                       
                     
 
                      
                    
 
                   
 
                  
 
                   
                   
                 
 
                  
                
 
               
 
                
                 
                  
                  
                   
                   
                   
                    
                    
                    
                     
                     Year 1
 
                      
                       
                       
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        	COMP101P - Principles of Programming
	COMP102P - Theory I
	COMP103P - Object-Oriented Programming
	COMP104P - Theory II
	COMP105P - Robotics Programming
	ENGS101P - Integrated Engineering
	ENGS102P - Design and Professional Skills
	MATH6301

 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        Students on the 1st year of their programme take 8 compulsory modules (each with a credit value of 0.5).
 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                      
 
                       
                     
 
                     Year 2
 
                      
                       
                       
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                         Core Modules

                        
 
                         
                         
                        	COMP201P - Networking and Concurrency
	COMP202P - Logic and Database Theory
	COMP203P - Software Engineering and Human Computer Interaction
	COMP206P - Mathematics and Statistics
	COMP207P - Compilers

 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        Students on the 2nd year of their programme take 6 compulsory modules (with an overall credit value of 3.5) and 1 minor module, 0.5 credits.
 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                         Term 3: How to Change the World

                        
 
                         
                         
                        All second year students in the Engineering Sciences Faculty will be required to attend a two-week course entitled 'How to Change the World'.
 
                        Global organisations (including the World Bank, the International Red Cross and Arup) will join us at UCL to present real-world problems, for which you will design solutions. During the fortnight, you will be provided with a programme of themed lectures, training workshops and group work, that move through themes of sustainability, equality and collaboration. You'll have a chance to interact with leaders from, and tackle problems provided by, some of the world's most international employers of engineers.
 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                         Integrated Engineering Programme

                        
 
                         
                         
                        Students also choose a minor stream that allows them to gain a grounding in another engineering or relevant discipline or an interdisciplinary topic by offering a coherent set of three 0.5 course-unit modules allowing an introduction to a field as well as a opportunity to cover an interdisciplinary topic to reasonable depth. Find out more about the available Integrated Engineering Programme Minors. 
 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                      
 
                       
                     
 
                     Year 3
 
                      
                       
                       
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                         Core Modules

                        
 
                         
                         
                        	COMP3004 - Computational Complexity
	COMP3095 - Research Methods
	COMP3096 - Research Group Project

 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        Students in the 3rd year of their programme are required to undertake 4 core modules, for a total of 2 credits.
 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                         Optional Modules

                        
 
                         
                         
                        	COMP3011 - Functional Programming
	COMP3012 - Interaction Design
	COMP3013 - Database and Information Management Systems
	COMP3035 - Networked Systems
	COMP3058 - Artificial Intelligence and Neural Computing
	COMP3072 - Image Processing
	COMP3080 - Computer Graphics

 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        Students must choose 2 modules, for a total of 1 credit, from optional modules.
 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                         Integrated Engineering Minor Elective

                        
 
                         
                         
                        Students must also choose 2 modules (1 credit) from the IEP minors at the appropriate level. Find out more about the available Integrated Engineering Programme Minors. 
 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                      
 
                       
                     
 
                     Year 4
 
                      
                       
                       
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                         Core Modules

                        
 
                         
                         
                        	COMPM091 - Individual Project

 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        Students in the 4th year of their programme are required to undertake 1 core modules, the Individual Project, for a total of 1 credit.
 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                         
                         
                          
                         
                          Optional Modules

                         
 
                          
                        
 
                         
                         
                         
                          
                         	COMPM007 - Operational Risk Measurement for Financial Institutions
	COMPM014 - Requirements Engineering and Software Architecture
	COMPM022 - Software Abstractions and Systems Integration
	COMPM023 - Validation and Verification
	COMPM024 - Tools and Environments
	COMPM026 - Financial Institutions and Markets
	COMPM028 - Language Based Security
	COMPM030 - Distributed Systems and Security
	COMPM034 - Multimedia Systems
	COMPM041 - Web Economics
	COMPM042 - Complex Networks and Web
	COMPM050 - Advanced Topics in Machine Learning
	COMPM052 - Information Retrieval and Data Mining
	COMPM054 - Machine Vision
	COMPM056 - Graphical Models
	COMPM058 - Bioinformatics
	COMPM061 - People and Security
	COMPM062 - Computer Security I
	COMPM063 - Introduction to Cryptography
	COMPM064 - Applied Cryptography
	COMPM065 - Computer Security 2
	COMPM066 - Malware

 
                          
                        
 
                         
                         
                         
                          
                         	COMPM067 - Privacy Enhancing Technologies
	COMPM068 - Cryptanalysis
	COMPM072 - Mathematical Methods Algorithms and Implementations
	COMPM076 - Virtual Environments
	COMPM077 - Computational Modelling for Biomedical Imaging
	COMPM078 - Inverse Problems in Imaging
	COMPM080 - Acquisition and Processing of 3D Geometry
	COMPM081 - Geometry of Images
	COMPM082 - Affective Computing and Human-Robot Interaction
	COMPM085 - Computational Photography and Capture
	COMPM087 - Verification and Mechanised Proofs
	COMPM092 - Advanced Deep learning and Reinforcement Learning
	COMPM090 - Applied Machine Learning

 
                          
                        
 
                         
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        Students must choose between 2.5 and 3.0 credits from optional modules.
 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                         Elective Modules

                        
 
                         
                         
                        Students may select up to 0.5 credits from all Level 7 undergraduate modules from across UCL.
 
                         
                       
 
                        
                        
                      
 
                       
                     
 
                    
 
                   
 
                    
                    
                  
 
                   
                   
                   
                    
                   
                    Module Selection

                   
 
                    
                    
                   The modules that make up a programme are either core, optional or elective, which reflects whether they must be taken or can optionally be taken. The programme’s curriculum (also called a programme diet) will prescribe in what combinations modules can be taken, any restrictions on doing so, and how much credit can and must be taken. 
 
                   Core/compulsory modules are fundamental to the programme’s curriculum and students must take these. You will be automatically allocated a place on any core modules for your programme and will not need to select these during the module selection process. There will be no timetable clashes between your programme’s core modules. 
 
                   Optional modules are strongly related to the programme and students can choose which of these they wish to take, usually from within specific groups (for example, a student may be asked to choose two optional modules from one group and three from another, etc.) Places of optional modules are strictly limited (due to spatial, resource and timetable constraints) and will be allocated on a first come first serve basis. Some optional modules have pre-requisites which students will need to meet in order to be eligible for a place. 
 
                   Elective modules are not programme specific, but allow students the opportunity to explore their interests more widely. Students are usually restricted to taking one or two elective modules. There is no guarantee of being accepted onto an elective module. These modules are core or optional on other programme diets, consequently students on these programmes will be given priority. Any remaining places will then be allocated on a first come first served basis. Some elective modules have pre-requisites which students will need to meet in order to be eligible for a place. 
 
                   Please note: timetable clashes between optional and elective modules from different specialisations are inevitable and this can result in limiting the available choices. It is the student’s responsibility to select modules that do not clash in order to meet UCLs minimum attendance requirements. Please speak to your Programme Director and/ or Programme Administrator if you have any queries. 
 
                   Non-Computer Science students should note that priority on COMP* modules will always be given to Computer Science students in the first instance.
 
                    
                  
 
                   
                   
                 
 
                  
                
 
               
 
              
 
             
 
              
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             A levels
 
             Grades          A*AA

             
Subjects       Mathematics required

              GCSEs          English Language and Mathematics at grade C. For UK based students, a grade C or equivalent 
                     in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical Hebrew or Latin) is required.

              UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign language requirement following enrolment, further details can be found at:at:www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs 

             
             IB Diploma

             
Points            39

              Subjects        A total of 19 points in three higher level subjects including grade 6 in Mathematics, with no score below 5.

              	
	
               English Language Requirements
              


             If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. 
 
             The English language level for this programme is: Standard

Further information can be found on our English language requirements page. 
 
             International students 
 
             Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             UK/EU Fees: £9,000 (2016/17) 
 
             Overseas Fees: £22,380 (2016/17) 
 
             For a comprehensive list of the funding opportunities available at UCL, including funding relevant to your nationality, please visit the Scholarship and Funding website.
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             	Top graduate destinations:        

                 	Google
	Microsoft
	IBM
	Cisco
	Credit Suisse
	Accenture

	Top graduate roles:                 

                 	Software Engineer
	Technology Consultant        
	Web Designer
	Project Manager
	Data Analyst
	Senior Developer

	Top further study destinations:

                 	UCL
	University of Cambridge
	LSE
	Berkeley




             Average starting salary £31,120
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             Undergraduate Administrators
Lydia O'Donoghue
undergraduate-admissions@ucl.ac.uk 
+44 (0)20 7679 3690 
 
                
 
             More information
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service) using the course code G402. Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS. 
 
             Application deadline: 15 January 2017
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 03 Apr 2017 and is maintained by 
      Sarah Moore 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
