 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         MEng Student wins Anita Borg Scholarship
 
         
          
          Kinga Mrugala

         
 
         Fourth year MEng. student Kinga Mrugala has been awarded an "Anita Borg" Scholarship. The award was established by Google "to encourage women to excel in computing and technology and become active role models and leaders in the field". Dr Anita Borg (1949-2003) fought to ensure that technology’s impact would be a positive one. In 1997 she founded the Institute for Women and Technology which today bears her name. 
 
         Kinga was one of 78 recipients chosen from applicants across N. America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Awards reflected the "strength of each candidate’s academic background and demonstrated leadership". Kinga has already taken part in a "retreat" in Zurich where she was able to meet other winners and participate in workshops, breakout sessions and social activities. 
 
         Speaking of the award Kinga said "The application itself was fairly simple, there were just a couple of essay questions. However, since the questions asked for concrete examples, it was important that I was active while studying. The new UCL CS curriculum and the COMP2013 Systems Engineering project with Dr Dean Mohamedally were particularly helpful in getting noticed by the committee. I also participated in hackathons and volunteering activities. 
 
         Getting the scholarship was an amazing experience. At the retreat I was able to meet other female computer science students and hear from engineers at Google, which was inspiring. The scholarship also gave me confidence and courage. Thanks to that I applied for a job at Google, as a result I will be joining them in Zurich next summer.  
 
         I would really encourage any female engineers to apply for this scholarship next year at www.google.co.uk/anitaborg/emea/index.html . There are also many other opportunities out there – for more information see uclwe.cs.ucl.ac.uk . "
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 21 Oct 14 19:36 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL undergraduates... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: CS wins funding for...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
