 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Prospective Students ›› MSc ICT Innovation 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        Note: UCL has stopped accepting any new applications for this programme, as UCL will not be a partner of the EIT Digital Master School after 2018. 
 
        For further information, please contact EIT Digital Master School.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        UCL is a partner in this European initiative – the EIT Digital Master School’s programmes in ICT Innovation! 
 
         The EIT Digital Master School offers two year programmes where you can choose two universities in two different European countries to build a curriculum of your choice based on your skills and interest. We offer double degrees, which combines technical competence with a set of skills in Innovation and Entrepreneurship. While you get an excellent theoretical education, you also get the opportunity to work with European top research institutes and leading business partners.
 
        

 
         
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Visit us on 
 
        http://www.masterschool.eitdigital.eu/,  
 
        http://www.facebook.com/ICTInnovation,  
 
        http://www.linkedin.com/company/eit-ict-labs-master-school 
 
        https://www.yammer.com/masterschool.eitictlabs.eu/ 
 
        and 
 
        http://twitter.com/eitictlabsms 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
          
         Structure 
 
         Availability: Full-time 2 years 
 
         The first year is taken in another partner institute in Europe. 
 
         The second year can be taken at UCL for either the technical major Human-Computer Interaction and Design or the technical major Digital Media Technology 
 
         This two year dual masters degree has an overall credit value of 120 ECTS. 
 
         Core Modules
 
          Technical Major: Human-Computer Interaction and Design

         	Interaction Science - (Term 1)
	*Either Affective Interaction - (Term 2)
	**or Affective Computing and Human-robot Interaction - (Term 2)
	Business Feasibility Planning (I & E Thesis) - (Term 2)
	Master's Thesis - (Term 2 + 3 + Summer)


         Technical Major: Digital Media Technology

         	Virtual Environments - (Term 1)
	Acquisition and Processing of 3D Geometry - (Term 2)
	Computational Photography and Capture - (Term 2)
	Business Feasibility Planning (I & E Thesis) - (Term 2)
	Master's Thesis - (Term 2 + 3 + Summer)


         Options
 
          Technical Major: Human-Computer Interaction and Design 
 
          * if you choose to take PSYCGI15 Choose one modules from:-

         	Physical Computing & Prototyping - (Term 2)
	Human Factors for Digital Health - (subject to space and lecturer approval) - (Term 2)
	Sociotechnical Systems: IT and the Future of Work - (Term 2) 
	Future Interfaces - (Term 2)
	Persuasive Games - (subject to space and lecturer approval) - (Term 2)
	Accessibility & Assistive Technologies - (Term 2)


         Technical Major: Digital Media Technology 
 
         Choose one module from:-

         	Machine Vision - (Term 1)
	Geometry of Images - (Term 2)
	Image Processing - (Term 1)
	Computational Modelling for Biomedical Imaging - (Term2) 
	Multimedia Systems - (Term 2)
	Network and Application Programming - (Term 2)
	Interaction Design - (Term 2)
	Professional Practice - (Term 2)


         Dissertation/report
 
         All MSc students undertake a minor thesis and a master's thesis, in collaboration with an external partner. For the master's thesis, students will spend at least two months in the external partner's environment. 
 
         Teaching and Learning
 
         The programme is delivered through a combination of lectures, discussions, practical sessions, case studies, problem-based learning and project work. Assessment is through coursework assignments, unseen examinations and the two thesis projects. 
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 30 Mar 2017 and is maintained by 
      Tracy Williams 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
