 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Agendas ›› November 13th 2002 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        

        University College London

        Computer Science Department
 
        
 
        Agenda for the SSCC meeting November 13th 2002
 
        The meeting will be held at 1:00 pm in room 305, Pearson building.

        


         	Apologies for absence.
	Notification of any other business
	Approval of minutes of the meeting of 27th February 2002
	Matters arising.
	Changes to representation on the committee.


 
         General

         	Late access to labs. (P Sinden)
	Food in labs (R Hirsch)
	Terms of reference for departmental Teaching Committee.  Student representatives should see a copy of the agenda for the TC and if there is an item of particular interest, you may ask the Chair of the TC for permission to attend.   If the agenda contains business that should not be discussed in the presence of student members, there should be a separate, Reserved Areas of Business section of the agenda.(J Saunders)
	Request for a replacement printer for room 208 (M Sewell)
	Items for sale.  Bulletin board for those interested in selling and buyingpersonal items.  NB: no commercial ventures permitted on departmental facilities without prior permission of the head of department. (B Stein/R Hirsch)


 
         Undergraduate Issues

         	Improved facilities for CS common room (S Sharda)
	Request for "open options" for CS with EE students (Y Mauree)
	Fourth year timetable clashes (M Delacour)
	Lateness of lecture notes (M Delacour)
	Irrelevant postings to departmental mailing lists (M Delacour)
	Arbitrary nature of programme/non-programme options, and aim to get rid of rule against taking options out of year (A Chung)
	More coursework weighting for programming courses (A Chung)
	Is the Professional Issues course worthwhile (A Chung)
	Low quality of undergraduate course (A Chung).


 
         MSc Issues

         Research Students 
 

         	Can we get rid of the "log books"? (M Sewell)
	Desks for Ph.D. students.
	"The PhD Programme in the Department of Computer Science"


<URL:http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/research/students/programme.html> states that 
         
it is policy that "Full-time students get a desk."  With full-time fee-paying students being forced to share a desk, the above 
         
policy is not being enforced and I believe that it should be. (M Sewell)
         Any other business 
 

         Robin Hirsch (Chair, SSCC).

         

         
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
