 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Agendas ›› November 20th 2013 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         November 20th 2013

        
 
         
         
        

        
         The Computer Science Staff-Student Consultative Committee (SSCC)
 
         
 
         Agenda for a meeting to be held 1-2.00pm on Wednesday 20th November 2013 in MPEB1.20.

         	Apologies for absence.


	Notification of any other business.


	Approval of minutes of the last meeting on March 13th 2013
- Minutes should be signed by the chair and at least one student representative.


	Matters arising from the minutes of the previous meeting
- The DTC should clarify grade boundaries and standard marking guidelines.
- Annual monitoring data feedback from student reps.
- Making available anonymised module report information.
- Reopening online module feedback forms after marked coursework has been returned.
- Third year advanced modules appearing as intermediate on transcripts.
- Filestore quota limits.
- Tidying up labs and providing cables to connect notebooks to monitors.


	Teaching Matters
- Handling of provisional results, particularly for international students (Michael Boon)
- Lack of time to work on 4th year projects (Richard Everett)
- Late timetable changes (Richard Everett)
- Publishing coursework deadlines at the start of term (Richard Everett)
- Class size and GC01 resources (Stefan Alborzpour)
- MScCS & FC option module pre-requisites, including COMPGC26, GV15 & GV17 (Stefan Alborzpour)
- Three hour lectures v. three one hour lectures (Steven Crockett)
- Providing a discussion forum on all Moodle sites (Sijia Zhao)


	Facilities
- 4th year MEng students should get the same postgrad privileges that the MSc students get.


	Student input for space and facilities in a potential new CS building (Graham Roberts)


	Any Other Business.


	The next meeting is due to be held in November 2013.


         

        

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
