 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Agendas ›› November 26th 2009 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        	The Computer Science Staff-Student Consultative Committee (SSCC)
Agenda for meeting to be held 1-2.00pm on Thursday 26th November 2009 in MPEB1.03.

            	Apologies for absence.


	Notification of any other business.


	To note the Committee's Terms of Reference (included below).



             	Approval of minutes of the last meeting on 23rd February 2009
- Minutes should be signed by the chair and at least one student representative. 


	Matters arising from the minutes of the previous meeting:
- Return of COMP3005 Operating Systems coursework and updates to coursework submission and return mechanisms (Graham Roberts)


	Departmental Issues (Nicola Alexander):
              	Student Representation on the CS Teaching Committee
	Information about the upcoming IQR
	Module feedback forms





             	Induction Week for 2nd years (William Mayor)



             	Local environment items:
              	The CS student Green Champion is Andrew Lennard (MScFC)
	Availability of bicycle parking at UCL (Thomas Stone)
	Smoking at entrances of MPEB and Roberts building (Thomas Stone)


	Technical items:
              	Warning for when your printer quota is running out (Raunak Gupta)
	More computers needed for lab work and/or more places where notebook computers can be used in labs (Yotam Doron)


	Student common room items:
              	Any money for the student common room this year? (Raunak Gupta)
	Preventing students from other departments using the CS student common room (Raunak Gupta)
	Installing a microwave (Yotam Doron)
	Can unused lockers be reallocated or coin operated lockers installed? (Yotam Doron)
	

New cues for the pool table (Yotam Doron)
              


             

             	MScFSE items: Use of Moodle forums, staff availability hours, programming languages and assignments (Pritesh Shah)



             	MScCVGI items: MMAI module and coursework (Yotam Doron)



             	Any Other Business.


	The next meeting is due in February 2010.



Terms of Reference (see item 3)

            	to discuss follow-up action resulting from previous DSSCC meetings, in particular any matter which was referred to the DTC meeting;
	to comment upon the outcome of degree programme and course evaluation questionnaires and any consequent follow-up action;
	to receive notification of any Departmental changes with respect to teaching, admissions, and assessment;
	to comment upon any significant changes to Departmental policy which would have a direct consequence for teaching, admissions, and assessment;
	to comment upon safety within the Department;

to comment upon physical resources within the Department e.g. computer/library facilities etc.;
             	to make students aware of the Departmental Equal Opportunities Liaison Officer;
	as part of UCL's Annual Monitoring (AM) and Augmented Annual Monitoring (AAM) processes to (i) receive and consider the Head of Department's overview of the AM and AAM reports and (ii) identify student related issues for further discussion by the DTC;
	to receive and consider copies of the annual reports of the Chairs of Boards of Examiners;
	to report to the DTC concerned by submission of minutes of each meeting of the DSSCC to the officers of the DTC.

The Policy for departmental Staff-Student Consulatative Committees is described in the UCL Academic Manual, Section H3
	
	

 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
