 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Agendas ›› November 3rd 2004 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        Agenda for the SSCC meeting 3rd November 2004
 
        The meeting will be held at 1:00 pm in room 229.

        	Apologies for absence: Khurshed Ali, JJ Giwa
	Notification of any other business.
	Approval of minutes of the last meeting (4th February 2004).
	Matters arising from previous minutes.
- Abuse of CS mailing lists. Various reminders have been sent.
- Timely information about lecture changes/cancellations and coursework deadlines. This was raised at the February 2004 Teaching Cttee and staff were reminded to make good use of course mailing lists.
	The New CS Building (Jill Saunders)
	Student Recruitment (Steve Hailes)
The department is looking for ways to improve recruitment onto our degree programmes.
	Scholarships (Graham Roberts)
The department is working hard to obtain student scholarships from a variety of sources and encourage students to apply for them.
	Student Rep Training (Graham Roberts)
The UCL Union will be holding training sessions and support to make sure the SSCC system works effectively.
	Student Representatives on other Departmental Cttees (Graham Roberts) 
If interested in attending other committees, such as the Teaching Cttee, please email Graham Roberts.
	Clarification of differences between MSc and MSci courses (Fuad Sulejmanovic)
	Chartered Engineer Status for MSci students (Fuad Sulejmanovic)
	Extended Lab Opening Hours (Graham Roberts)
No one has made use of the extended opening hours so far. No further sessions will be arranged unless we can be sure people will make use of them. Email JJ if you want to arrange late opening on a specific date.
	End of year wrap-up meetings feedback (Jill Saunders)
	Any Other Business


        Graham Roberts (Chair, SSCC)
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
