 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Minutes ›› October 14 2015 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        UCL Department of Computer Science 
 
        Departmental Staff Student Consultative Committee (DSSCC) Minutes 
 
        Wednesday 14 October 2015 at 13:00 - Engineering Front Suite 104 
 
        Staff present: 
 
        Graham Roberts (Departmental Tutor, DEOLO, Director of Studies), Kevin Bryson, Nisha Gosai, Jill Saunders, JJ Giwa, Tracy Williams, Stephen Hailes, Emiliano De Cristofaro. 
 
        Student Academic Representatives present: 
 
        Hipolito Iturraspe (MSc ML), Konstantine Eleftherios Metallinos (MSc CSML), Carol Yang (MSc), Hirsh Jaykrishnan Pithadia (MSc), Apinan Hasthanasonihat (2nd Year UG Rep), Harry Coulter Blum, Connor Clooney (MSc SSE), Quisi Xu (MSc CF), Lucky Onwuzurike (2nd Year PhD), Yee Chong Tan, Steve Harle, Tak Loon Ng (WSBDA), Nicholas Giles, Angelos Pillos (MSc FSE). 
 
        In Attendance: 
 
        Manoj Vaseekharan (Chair) 
 
        Simone Thompson (Secretary) 
 
        1.    Apologies 
 
        The Chair welcomed the committee; there were no apologies to report. 
 
        2.    Notification of any other business 
 
        Konstantine Metallinos commented that the time of the meeting clashed with one of his module lectures.  The Chair confirmed that the meetings are usually scheduled for 13:00 and that this is likely to be the case for future meetings. 
 
        3.    Approval of minutes of the last meeting held on 12 March 2015 
 
        The minutes of the meeting held on Thursday 12 March 2015 were approved as an accurate record of the meeting. 
 
        4.    Matters arising from the minutes of the previous meeting 
 
        4.1       Personal tutor meetings 
 
        Graham Roberts reminded students of the importance of personal tutor meetings and explained that meetings should be organised regularly by academics - at least twice a term.  The purpose of the meetings is to provide academic and pastoral support as well as monitor student progress, review and raise any issues students have and discuss coursework. Personal tutors would also be responsible for writing an academic reference for students following completion of the degree. 
 
        A discussion followed about the value of personal tutorial meetings. The Chair mentioned that his personal tutor, Nicolas Gold encouraged his tutees to use the personal development log on Portico to keep track of their goals; he noted that the system was good for recording strengths and weakness, and was useful for reflection. It was apparent that not many students were familiar with this functionality. 
 
        4.2       Late return of marked coursework 
 
        The late return of marked coursework was discussed.  Graham Roberts reported that this was a ‘hot topic’ at the moment as the results of the National Student Survey (NSS) had indicated that UCL was poor in this area.  He explained that guidelines were being created to make feedback useful, concise and enforce a standard feedback response time of 4 weeks. The return date for marked coursework and feedback must be published at the point the assessment is set.  If the timelines are not adhered to then this should be reported to the Head of Department who can then contact the academic responsible. 
 
        There was a general discussion about the value of coursework.  It was suggested that the department should devise a standard mark sheet similar to the summative feedback assessment template used by Graham Roberts who suggested that a rubric should also be included so students are aware of the results achievable. 
 
        ACTION:        Student reps to monitor whether the new feedback system is implemented. 
 
        The standard template idea to be discussed at the DTC. 
 
        4.3       Reminder to academics re: software for coursework completion 
 
        Academics are to contact computer services to ensure the relevant software is installed on their computer. 
 
        4.4       Response to Lab timetable not being up to date or online 
 
        It was agreed that a scanned copy of the lab timetable would be posted on the computer science webpage and a physical copy posted on the lab doors. 
 
        ACTION: Nisha Gosai to post weekly timetables on the lab doors and investigate having a dedicated space for this on the website. 
 
        5.    Teaching Matters 
 
        5.1  Annual Student Experience Review (ASER) 
 
        Graham Roberts introduced the ASER which replaces the Annual Monitoring and Augmented Annual Monitoring process. He confirmed that following the REF results, UCL will focus on improving the student experience by developing new methods of teaching excellence to match research excellence.  All programmes are subject to review, with data being collated from a number of sources, including student opinion on the strengths and weaknesses of the department. Any issues identified should be reported to a class representative and recorded on an ASER form, which upon completion should be sent to Jill Saunders or Graham Roberts.  Any issues will be reviewed and followed up by Anthony Smith, Vice-Provost (Education and Student Affairs). 
 
        Action: Student reps to report programme strengths and weaknesses to Jill Saunders or Graham Roberts. 
 
        6.    Facilities 
 
        Konstantine Metallinos reported concerns about the lack of adequate space in lecture theatres.  He confirmed that students were forced to sit on the floor in some lectures. Graham Roberts apologised and informed students that the issue of space was a top priority for UCL and that the concerns would be fed back to the centre.  Jill Saunders said that practical solutions were being investigated and asked the student body how they felt about the recording system Lecturecast.  The overall opinion was positive as a short term solution. It was also noted that Lecturecast was a valuable resource for revision purposes. 
 
        7.    Any other business. 
 
        Apinan Hasthanasonihat commented that students were concerned about the peer marking system for one of the module as over 80% of the class received a first. 
 
        It was reported that some lecturers were unapproachable and gave some students the ‘cold shoulder’. 
 
        8.    Date of the next meeting 
 
        The next meeting will be held in November 2015 – date to be confirmed. 
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Simone Thompson 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
