 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Peter Kirstein wins 2015 Marconi Society Prize
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Professor Peter Kirstein has been awarded the prestigious 2015 Marconi Society Prize for his ‘tireless advocacy and pioneering technical contributions to computer networking which helped establish and expand the Internet in Europe and many other parts of the world.’ 
 
         The Marconi Prize is given each year to a scientist or engineer who achieves advances in communications and information technology for the social, economic and cultural development of humanity. 
 
         “Peter is often recognized as the father of the European Internet,” said Vint Cerf, co-inventor of TCP/IP protocol.  “But that phrase understates his contributions in the field of computer networking and in the area of protocols or systems for specific purposes. For the past 40+ years, Kirstein has made persistent contributions to the practical workings, adoption and application of the Internet worldwide.” 
 
         Professor Kirstein joined UCL in 1973 as Professor of Computer Communications Systems and became the first head of the Computer Science Department in 1979. Prior to this he worked as an accelerator physicist at CERN before joining GE in Zurich where he developed his interest in computer and communications technology. 
 
         Sir Eric Ash, former Rector of Imperial College, said: “Peter Kirstein has had an enormous influence on first, the acceptance and then the development of packet switching and then the Internet in the UK, Europe and beyond. Creating the first European node of the ARPAnet at UCL was a key step towards its wider acceptance. Peter Kirstein and his celebrated group at UCL provided the catalysts that enabled what is arguably the key development of the 20th century to become so dominant in Europe.”
 
         “He has continued to contribute, both architecturally and with implementation, to a variety of applications, including email, network interconnection and currently, the Internet of Things,” said Robert Kahn, who co-invented TCP/IP. “As a professor at UCL, he has mentored engineers who have gone on to make many useful contributions to this space.  He’s been a capable interlocutor between EU and US defense department initiatives. He’s helped commercialize the technology, and he’s been one of the pioneers to push the boundaries of the communication paradigm much further. Quite simply, he is a giant in his field.”
 
         Announcement of the award has been welcomed across UCL. 
 
         Professor David Price, UCL Vice-Provost (Research), said: “Peter’s experimentation, innovation and application over more than four decades at UCL have hugely increased the inter-connectedness of people worldwide. We take great pride in providing a research environment in which the best minds can bring their expertise to bear on the critical issues and opportunities facing humanity. It is no exaggeration to place Peter on a par with fellow UCL pioneers such as Sir William Ramsay, Sir Ambrose Fleming, Francis Crick, Peter Higgs and Alexander Graham Bell.” 
 
         Professor Anthony Finkelstein, Dean of the UCL Faculty of Engineering Sciences, said: “This signal and richly deserved recognition marks the substantial achievement of Peter Kirstein who has consistently shown great foresight, leadership, technical skill and political nous to realise great strides forward in communications and networking. We are all very proud to have him as our colleague.”
 
         The prize will be presented to Professor Kirstein at a ceremony at the Royal Society in London on 20 October 2015.
 
         More details on Professor Kirstein’s research and career are available in the Marconi Society prize announcement [http://marconisociety.org/index.php/newsroom/379-peter-kirstein-to-receive-marconi-prize].
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 10 Apr 15 11:48 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Prof Niloy J. Mitra... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: HIV spreads like...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
