 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Programming success for UCL CS staff & students
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Over the two days of last weekend, two teams from UCL Computer Science travelled to Linköping University to compete in the Northwestern Europe Regional Contest 2015 (NWERC). This is a major international programming competition. Team Carrot, composed of Georgi Georgiev, Wael Al Saeed, and Iuliana Parasca achieved 8th place (of 95), completing eight of the problems, including one considered to be particularly challenging. In this position they finished with a silver medal, the first programming medal we know of in the history of University College London.
 
         Of the UK teams, only Imperial College London (2nd place) and Cambridge (7th place) had better scores (or, in Cambridge's case, a marginally better time), and Team Carrot beat teams from Cambridge, Oxford, Imperial, Warwick, Edinburgh, Bath, Liverpool, Manchester, Southampton, St Andrews, and Nottingham as well as from the remainder of NW Europe. Our second team, consisting exclusively of first year students in their first term of UCL - Jaromir Latal, Ovidiu Horatiu Ilie, Vlad Popa - came a creditable 84th, solving two of the problems and, in so doing, demonstrating a level of determination and the have-a-go spirit that we most value.
 
         Congratulations to all who took part, you've represented us with distinction and we are proud of you for it. Particular thanks also to Zbigniew Wojna, the team coach, and Mark Herbster for their unfailing support. Full results can be found at: http://www.nwerc.eu/scoreboard/ and, if you feel like a challenge, you can find the problems at https://open.kattis.com/contests/nwerc15open/problems
 
         Algorithms lie at the heart of our subject, and an interest and skill in applying, developing, and reasoning about  algorithms are among the things most prized by top-end employers and researchers alike. As a result, we'd like to build on this success and set up some more regular training at UCL. For students interested in participating in future, Zbigniew  has set up a Google group https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ucl-contests, and for academic staff, RAs and PhD students, we would like to hear from you if you'd be interested in helping in the training process. It's a brave thing  to deliberately walk outside your comfort zone, to put yourself to public test, but it exemplifies the spirit of students from UCL CS, and we applaud that. So, without more ado, we give you team Carrot....
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 03 Dec 15 17:39 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Privacy & Us project... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Ingemar Cox paper wins...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
