 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Public events announced for first ever UK Robotics Week: 25 June - 1 July 2016
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UK robotics innovation is taking centre stage this summer, with the announcement of a nationwide programme of exciting events for the first ever UK Robotics Week (25 June – 1 July 2016). Events for people of all ages are being held up and down the country, spanning public lectures, open labs, schools and academic competitions, hackathons, tech weekends for children, and cutting-edge robotics showcases.
 
         TheEPSRC UK Robotics and Autonomous Systems Network (UK-RAS Network) was established in March 2015 with the mission to provide academic leadership in Robotics and Autonomous Systems (RAS), expand collaboration with industry and integrate and coordinate activities at eight Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) funded RAS capital facilities, four Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) and partner universities across the UK, including UCL.
 
         The build-up to UK Robotics Week will be kicking off at the Imperial Festival 2016 on Saturday May 7th and Sunday May 8th 2016 at Imperial College London.  The festival – which is free to attend and open to all ages – will include opportunities to take part in robotics activities, including the “design a robot bug” and autonomous driving challenges. 
 Four “challenges” are at the core of UK Robotics Week – competitions aimed at pushing the boundaries of what is possible with robotic technology.
 
         · School Robot Challenge 2016 – open to all UK schoolchildren and students aged 4 years old to 18+.  Design a robot bug, make it 3D and teach it to move using free software that has been specially created for the challenge
 
         · Autonomous Driving Challenge 2016 – open to everyone. Design your own vehicle and teach it how to drive in this fun, quick and easy to enter competition that will introduce you to 3D design, coding and autonomous driving
 
         · Surgical Robot Challenge 2016 and Field Robotics Challenge 2016 – international competitions aimed at postgraduate students and researchers from academia and industry
 
         UK Robotics Week, to be held annually during the last week of June, is a unique opportunity to learn about the current state-of-the-art robotic technology, discuss the role of robots and artificial intelligence in our lives, and to inspire the next generation of designers and engineers.  Public lectures will include “The Ethical Roboticist”, a discussion on the role of robotics in society, to be held at the University of Liverpool on Monday 27th June.
 
         Three major conferences will be held during UK Robotics Week, attracting leading researchers and pioneers in robotics and autonomous systems from around the world:
 
         · The Hamlyn Symposium for Medical Robotics (June 25 – 28, London) – an international forum for surgeons and engineers to discuss the latest advances in surgical and medical robotics
 
         · TAROS 2016 (June 28 - 30, Sheffield) – TAROS (Towards Autonomous Robotic Systems) conference, now in its 17th year, covers a wide range of robotics and autonomous systems technologies
 
         · Eurohaptics 2016 (July 4-7, London) – major international conference on haptics and touch-enabled computer applications, and the primary European meeting for researchers in the field
 
         UK Robotics Week will culminate in the celebration International Showcase event in London on Friday 1st July.  This grand finale event will bring together the latest research from the UK and from around the world, offering talks and demonstrations from leading robotics nations including the UK, Japan, United States, South Korea, China, Italy, Switzerland and United Arab Emirates. The event will also include the Awards Ceremony for the four robotics Challenges, plus the launch of two brand new Robotics and Autonomous Systems white papers.
 
         UCL Engineering will also be offering a series of TechDays, Summer Challenges, Summer Schools, Coding Jams, Open Labs, Hackathons, cutting-edge robotics showcases and talks with creative technologists and experts for young people aged 5-19 years old. From building apps for robots to designing and making their own bio-inspired robot, building autonomous robots, developing games and websites to 3D printing, virtual reality and augmented reality activities, to coding with different programming languages,  the week-long events and activities at UCL have it all! See http://www.engineering.ucl.ac.uk/schools-engagement/news/celebrating-uk-national-robotics-week-ucl-25th-june-1st-july-2016/ for further details.
 
         For full information about all the activities planned for UK Robotics Week, please visit the website:www.roboticsweek.uk/ and follow UK Robotics Week on Twitter (@ukroboticsweek).
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 19 Apr 16 09:09 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Athena SWAN Silver Award... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Anthony Steed wins 2016...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
