 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Records of Web filtering in Syria analysed for first time
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Real data on the filtering methods used for web censorship in Syria in 2011 have been analysed for the first time by researchers at INRIA (The French Institute for Research in Computer Science and Automation), NICTA (Australia) and UCL. This analysis reveals the techniques used to monitor, filter and block traffic from Syrian users. These include address blocks based on geographic location, and requests containing specific keywords related to censorship avoidance. 
 
         Studying how Internet censorship is practiced in the real world is difficult due to lack of data. Previously studies have attempted to access web services in restricted areas and observed which are successful, but this does not reveal the full extent of censorship, or how regular users may be affected or work around it. Unusually, this work analyses 600GB of records from the censor’s side, taken from filtering ‘proxies’ inserted between the local network and the main routes for long-distance communications. 
 
         This dataset specifies the results of millions of requests for content, which may either be allowed, denied, or returned from stored records. They were captured and published to the Internet by the Telecomixgroup of hacking activists in October 2011. The records were subsequently confirmed as genuine by the device manufacturer Blue Coat Systems, although the company has stated that they did not authorize the use of their proxies in this country. 
 
         While the records give a rare opportunity to examine how censorship is applied in practice at large scale, this also means they are messy and include mistakes and dead ends. To handle this large and challenging collection, the international group of privacy researchers developed a method which they hope will be transferrable to others doing similar work, balancing the joint needs of accuracy and ease of use. Only aggregated traffic was analysed in order to preserve users’ privacy. 
 
         They found that four main kinds of filtering were employed: based on URLs, keywords, destination IP addresses and customized categories. These aimed to restrict access to instant messaging such as Skype, video sharing, and Wikipedia. Sites and Facebook pages related to news and opposition parties were off-limits, as was the keyword ‘Israel’, the domain .il, and some subnetworks. Detailed inspection of requests (Deep Packet Inspection, DPI) was used to deny those related to anti-censorship tools (for instance, any searches containing the word ‘proxy’), although this also removes a large section of content not related to censorship evasion. 
 
         In response to this, the researchers found people in Syria engaging in self-censorship: taking precautions and limiting their online behavior due to surveillance. However, they also use technology to get around these restrictions. Peer-to-peer networks like BitTorrent are used for sharing instant messaging software and privacy related tools. Google Cache, which stores versions of pages suggested by the search engine, is also used to avoid blocking, as the content is located on Google servers rather than at the banned addresses. 
 
         Dr Emiliano De Cristofaro (UCL Computer Science) said: 
 
         “We have exposed strengths and weaknesses of Web filtering conducted using Blue Coat proxies (which are still used in many countries worldwide). Through the lessons we learn we hope to give recommendations to users in how they can adapt to surveillance and censorship, and also guide research in the design of censorship-evading tools.” 
 
         Dr Mohamed-Ali Kaafar (NICTA Australia and INRIA Rhône-Alpes), said: 
 
         “Our analysis shows that compared to other censoring regimes, Internet censorship in Syria is less invasive and quite targeted. In fact, while aggressively censoring Instant Messaging, the censorship selectively targets a few Facebook pages and geo-politically significant content. This, however, does not necessarily mean minor information control or less ubiquitous surveillance, but rather shows that censorship aims at a more subtle control of the Internet. This is achievable today as the proxy appliances seamlessly support Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) which allows fine-grained censorship in real-time.” 
 
         The technical report “Censorship in the Wild: Analyzing Web Filtering in Syria”, has been published as a pre-print on the arXiv repository and is now freely available. The manuscript will soon be submitted for peer review. 
 
         Read more:

         	UCL infosec group
	NICTA Network Research Group
	Inria Privatics group


         Science contacts: 
 
         Emiliano De Cristofaro, UCL Computer Science
e.decristofaro@ucl.ac.uk +44 2076790349 
 
         Mohammed Ali (Dali) Kaafar, NICTA (Australia)
 Dali.Kaafar@nicta.com.au
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 05 Mar 14 09:43 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Installation created... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: 37 MSc and MEng students...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
