 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› Research 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Research at UCL Computer Science

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        The UCL Department of Computer Science is a global leader in experimental computer science research. We are concerned with real-world data and observations about computer and software systems and their use. Our shared experimental orientation, emphasises measurement, methodological rigour and reproducibility. This binds together our research, determines our strategy, recruitment policy, directs our investment, and underpins our research education. 
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Research Excellence

        
 
         
         
         
          
         The Research Excellent Framework (REF) is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutes. In the most recent REF evalution:

         	The department of Computer Science at UCL was ranked first for research in the UK
	96% of research submitted was rated internationally excellent
	61% of research submitted was rated world leading

 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Alan Turing Institute

        
 
         
         
        UCL is one of five academic partners for the new Alan Turing Institute for Data Science. Based at the King’s Cross Knowledge Quarter, the national Institute will draw together computer scientists, mathematicians, statisticians to work on this key driver for the economy. 
 
        See more here.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
          
            
             
             
              
             
              Research Groups

             
 
              
              
             Research Groups are strong, broad-based, disciplinary teams associated with laboratories. These groups are formally established and constitute the focus for strategic development within the department. 

             	Autonomous Systems
	Bioinformatics
	Financial Computing and Analytics

	 Human Centred Systems
	Information Security
	 Intelligent Systems
	Media Futures
	Programming Principles, Logic, and Verification
	 Software Systems Engineering
	Systems and Networks
	Virtual Environments & Graphics
	 Vision and Imaging Science

 
              
            
 
             
           

            
             
             
              
             
              Research Students

             
 
              
              
             UCL Computer Science supports a large, active postgraduate community studying on both research and taught programmes. Please follow the links below for information on these programmes:

             	EngD Programme in Virtual Environments Imaging and Visualisation

	PhD programmes
	UK PhD Centre in Financial Computing
	UCL SECReT


             	Pages for current PhD and MPhil students

 
              
            
 
             
           

          
 
          
            
             
             
              
             
              Research Centres

             
 
              
              
             Research Centres are large scale interdisciplinary teams established by UCL or across institutions. Research Centres are an important way in which UCL takes advantage of its broad disciplinary strengths. 

             	Bloomsbury Centre for Bioinformatics
	Centre for Computational Statistics & Machine Learning (CSML)
	 Centre for Digital Humanities
	Centre for Inverse Problems
	Centre for Mathematics, Physics and Engineering in the Life Sciences and Experimental Biology (CoMPLEX)
	 Centre for Medical Image Computing (CMIC)
	Centre for Research on Evolution Search and Testing (CREST)
	London Centre for Nanotechnology
	UCL Interaction Centre (UCLIC)
	UCL Quantum Technologies
	UCL Centre for Blockchain Technologies

 
              
            
 
             
           

            
             
             
              
             
              Interest Groups

             
 
              
              
             Interest Groups are informal groupings that come together to explore new subjects, extend the range of research or bring together different strands of computer science. Such teams reflect our dynamic research culture and are the seeds from which new Research Groups can grow. 

             	CS Quantum
	Digital Biology
	Machine Reading
	 MOBISYS
	 TESLA

 
              
            
 
             
           

          
 
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Research Pages

        
 
         
         
        	CS Publications List
	Research Notes
	CS Movies
	Strategic Research Fund

 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 17 Feb 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
