 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› News 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News

        
 
         
         
         
         Research explores hospital electronic prescribing
 
         
          
          

         
 
         New research is focusing on how hospital electronic prescribing can be used to improve safety and quality of medication use, as a part of the UCL Institute of Digital Health (UCL IDH) and Cerner UK collaborative partnership.
 
         Soomal Mohsin-Shaikh has been recruited as a PhD student at UCL, working with Cerner UK, to explore how introducing electronic prescribing and medication administration (EPMA) in the UK hospital context changes work flow and communication around the use of medication, the extent to which staff try to make it fit existing work processes versus process redesign, and how these changes can facilitate improvements in the safety and quality of medication use. Consideration will be given to exploring the impact on increased patient safety as well as efficiency for integrated versus non-integrated EPMA systems.
 
         Anticipated outcomes will include a description of the changes to workflow and practice that result from EPMA, a model of how these changes are perceived to occur, and a description of the characteristics of structures, processes and environment that help organisations achieve quality, efficiency and safety with EPMA. This studentship is based on a collaborative partnership between UCL and Cerner, an international leader in the development and implementation of healthcare technologies. 
 
         Academic supervisors are based at UCL School of Pharmacy and the UCL Interaction Centre, a centre of excellence in human-computer interaction research Dr Justin Whatling, Vice President Cerner and Visiting Professor UCL Institute Digital Health, states “I am delighted at Soomal’s appointment. The topic is key because digitisation is not the objective: understanding socio-technological aspects of how technologies are adopted in practice will enable adaptive change, delivering safer and more cost effective care for patients.” Prof Bryony Dean Franklin (UCL School of Pharmacy), Prof Ann Blandford and Dr Dominic Furniss (UCL Interaction Centre), and Dr Pete Hughes (Cerner) are co-supervising Soomal, bringing together expertise in evaluating EPMA technologies and human factors. 
 
         Professor Franklin, Professor of Medication Safety at UCL School of Pharmacy, reports “I am delighted to be supervising this PhD, on many levels. There are many important questions around the impact of technology on medication safety and there is little UK evidence to date. This particular PhD research is particularly relevant at a time when more and more UK hospitals are introducing EPMA, or changing from one EPMA system to another. It also represents exciting multidisciplinary collaborations both within UCL and externally with Cerner”.
 
         Soomal will spend time at Cerner to gain understanding of their systems. She will also benefit from insights from practitioners and researchers at the UCL IDH, UCL School of Pharmacy  and Cerner Symposium on 8th February 2017, which will focus on the opportunities, challenges and experiences of EPMA. This will build on our partnership’s goals to bring research and innovations to market quicker.
 
         Soomal Mohsin-Shaikh joined UCL from Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and up until recently was working as a resident pharmacist across the different sites. She completed her pre-registration year with the Trust, which recently underwent the transition from a paper based to electronic system and gained first-hand experience of the training, challenges and benefits of an electronic interface.
 
         Soomal said:  “Research in the area of electronic prescribing and medication administration is growing rapidly. Being part of this developing field gives me the opportunity to bring about positive changes for the future of healthcare.”
 
         About UCL Institute of Digital Health The UCL Institute of Digital Health harnesses the expertise and capabilities across all eleven of UCL’s faculties in digital health. The institute was launched in June 2015 and is led by Professor Ann Blandford. Our world-class collaborative research develops novel technologies and infrastructure focused on improving the health of individuals and populations to benefit patients, healthcare professionals, industry leaders and policy makers. www.ucl.ac.uk/digitalhealth | Follow us on Twitter @uclidh |
 
         About UCL School of Pharmacy The UCL School of Pharmacy is one of the most highly rated pharmacy schools (8th in the QS rankings for pharmacy and pharmacology 2015/2016) and has a long tradition of expert contribution to healthcare practice and policy. The School is located within the Faculty of Life Sciences, one of four Faculties that comprise the School of Life and Medical Sciences (SLMS - see: www.ucl.ac.uk/slms/).  The School enjoys a lively and stimulating academic environment in which teachers, researchers, professionals and students interact. All are connected by an interest in medicines - how they work, how they are made and how they are used by people to prevent and treat disease. Research focuses on advancing and understanding medicines and health care, and in creating new medicines. Its performance in the Research Excellence Framework 2014 marks UCL School of Pharmacy as one of the most important centres for pharmacy and drug discovery research in UK education.
 
         About Cerner Limited Cerner’s health information technologies connect people, information, and systems, at approximately 20,000 facilities worldwide. Recognised for innovation, Cerner solutions assist NHS Trusts and clinicians in making and documenting care decisions and enable organisations to manage the health of populations. The company provides clients with a wide range of in-house services, as well as an integrated clinical system to help organisations manage quality, outcomes and revenue. Cerner’s mission is to contribute to the systemic improvement of health care delivery and the health of communities. Nasdaq: CERN. For more information about Cerner, please visit www.cerner.co.uk, check out our blog at www.cerner.com/blog and connect with us on Twitter at CernerUK and on Facebook at www.facebook.com/cerner.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 07 Feb 17 15:53 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Computer Science student... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Google backing boosts...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
