 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Research using statistical NLP algorithm reveals Twitter users' age, gender & socioeconomic status
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Computer Science Research Associates Dr Vasileios Lampos and Dr Nikolaos Aletra have collaborated with researchers from the University of Pennsylvania to publish a paper about Twitter - connecting a person’s words to age, gender, even socioeconomic status, and taking the next step to linking the online behavior of more than 5,000 Twitter users to their income bracket. 
 
         The team published their results in the journal PLOS ONE. 
 
         Some of the results validated what's already known, for instance, that a person's words can reveal age and gender, and that these are tied to income. But there were also some surprises; for example, those who earn more tend to express more fear and anger on Twitter, and perceived optimists have a lower mean income. 
 
         Text from those in lower income brackets includes more swear words, whereas those in higher brackets more frequently discuss politics, corporations and the nonprofit world.
 
         Nikolaos Aletras noted an overall picture that emerged about Twitter use: 
 
         'Lower-income users or those of a lower socioeconomic status use Twitter more as a communication means among themselves,' he said.
 
         High-income people use it more to disseminate news, and they use it more professionally than personally. This work attempts to highlight some of the potential causal factors in these relationships.' 
 
         In order to determine Twitter users' socioeconomic status, the team used the UK's job code system that sorts occupation into nine classes. Using that hierarchy, the researchers determined average income for each code, then sought a representative sampling from each by analysing 5,191 Twitter users and more than 10 million tweets.
 
         They created a statistical natural language processing algorithm that pulled in words that people in each code class use distinctly. Most people tend to use the same or similar words, so the algorithm's job was to 'understand' which were most predictive for each class.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 30 Sep 15 10:19 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Celebrating Ada Lovelace... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Angela Sasse elected...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
