 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students ›› Teaching and Learning 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Teaching and Learning

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Getting Support and Raising Issues

        
 
         
         
        All Programme Directors and Module Leaders will keep a regular office hour during term time and over the examination period. Students are very welcome to drop in on staff during their office hours if there is anything they would like to discuss. 
 
        In addition, the Head of Department holds a weekly Open Hour, which students are welcome to attend in order to raise or discuss issues, including relating to assessment and feedback. No appointment is necessary. 
 
        Staff Office Hours and the schedule for the Head of Department Open Hour are published here.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Term Dates

        
 
         
         
        For full details, please see the UCL Term Calendar and also the list of Term and closure dates.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Timetables

        
 
         
         
        Here you will find information on how to access and interpret your personal timetable; how to use the 'custom timetable' tool; links to degree programme timetables, and a journey planner to help you find your lectures.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Syllabus and Curriculum Information

        
 
         
         
        You can find syllabus/ curriculum information by clicking on the link to your programme on the left hand side of this page. We make every effort to keep syllabus and curriculum information correct, however if you are in doubt about the assessment or the prerequisites for a particular module, or the options available on a particular programme, you should check with the lecturer or your Programme Director.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Module Selection

        
 
         
         
        The deadline for selecting modules via Portico is typically the end of the second week of teaching. To make or change a module selection after this time you will need to contact the Programme Administrator. 
 
        Students will have the opportunity to discuss their choices with academic staff, however arrangements vary according to programme, so do take note of any information given by your Programme Administrator/ Programme Director in Induction Week. 
 
        Changes to modules taught in Term 2 can be requested until mid-late January, as long as all relevant permissions are sought.

        
 
         
       

       To top
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Attendance and Engagement Monitoring

        
 
         
         
        All our degree programmes are full time, so you are expected to attend UCL for all timetabled events and be contactable throughout term. Our modules are designed to be suitably demanding, so don't make the mistake of slacking off and falling behind. If you miss lectures, you must take responsibility for catching up on the material you miss. 
 
        The department uses a variety of methods to check student engagement, including monitoring signature sheets for coursework hand-ins, monitoring logins to online resources such as Moodle, and taking occasional class registers. There are several points in the academic year when the department is required to report formally to the Registry that all their students are engaging with their studies. This is partly because of UK legislation (UCL has a 'Highly Trusted Sponsor' status with the UK Border Agency and is required to monitor the engagement of it's Tier 4 visa students), however, UCL has decided that all its students should be treated equitably and therefore undertakes attendance checks on all students. 
 
        We will normally email a class in advance of when a register is to be taken. It is important that if you miss a lecture where a register is taken, that you respond promptly to any email follow-up to confirm that you are attending and engaging with your studies. If you are struggling for any reason, ifor example ill-health, then please do seek help (see section 7, illness, absence and extenuating circumstances for further details.)

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Examination and Assessment 

        
 
         
         
        See below for information on the following:

        	Academic Regulations for Students [Chapter 4: Assessment Framework: Taught Programmes]
	Assessment guide for undergraduate Computer Science students 
	Deferral of Examination Element - Graduates only
	Deferred Assessment - Undergraduates only
	Exam Results
	Examination Re-Entry Fees   
	Examination Guide for Candidates [PDF File] 
	Examination Venues [PDF File] 
	Past Examination Papers   
	Regulations for Boards of Examiners 
	Transcripts
	UCL Exams and Assessment Pages
	Withdrawal from Examinations


        Additional Departmental Information You can find information about the method of assessment for computer science modules on each syllabus page. Where an examination is part of the assessment, this will normally take place in Term 3 (between late April - early June 2017). Your personal examination timetable will be available at the end of term 2. In order to be entered for the correct exams it is VITAL that you have registered for the relevant modules in Portico. The absolutely final deadline for any changes to module registrations is mid-late January (date to be notified for 2017). However is best to make sure you have confirmed your registrations well before the deadline. 
 
        Exam Attendance 
 
        It is your responsibility to arrive on time and at the correct location for each exam. The examiners for a module are normally present at the start of any paper for which they have set questions, for the first half hour of an exam to respond to any reasonable requests for clarification. 
 
        If you have a query after the examiner has left the hall you may ask the invigilator to contact the examiner, but there will inevitably be a delay in responding to your question so you are advised to do your best to fully understand the questions during the first half hour. 

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Coursework

        
 
         
         
        Quick links: 
 
        Coursework Coversheet 
 
        Coursework Deadlines Timetable
 
 
        Penalties for late submission 
 
        Most modules you will be taking have coursework. Typically you will be given sets of questions to answer, often requiring significant study and research to do properly. Each coursework will have a deadline and submission instructions.  
 
        If you are an undergraduate or MSc student then coursework for Computer Science (COMP) modules is either submitted on paper to the departmental office or electronically via Moodle. For coursework handed in to the departmental office the deadline is 12 noon on the day of submission. For electronic submission, the deadline is 11.55 pm on submission day. When work is submitted to the departmental office a coversheet must be printed out, filled-in, signed and attached to the work.  
 
        Note that arrangements for coursework submission for modules run by other departments might be different - make sure you check in advance. 
 
        The department publishes coursework timetables on the departmental website to allow students to see when work is due and to avoid coursework hand-in clashes.  When choosing options and when planning your time management, please look at the relevant coursework timetable. If your coursework does not appear on the timetable then please encourage the lecturer to get the timetable updated.  
 
        If you envisage problems completing the coursework by the deadline then speak to the lecturer, who under certain circumstances may be able to grant you an extension. For the majority of Computer Science modules, coursework that is handed in late without explanation will be subject to the following penalty for late submission. For coursework handed to the departmental office, a 'working day' runs from 12 noon (i.e. work handed in after 12 noon on the date of submission but before noon the next day is a day late).  
 
        You should assume that the standard penalties for late submission apply, unless you have been specifically told that there are other arrangements by the module tutor.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Projects

        
 
         
         
        Final year undergraduates can find information on potential topics and supervisors. For more detailed instructions on choosing, completing and submitting projects, see the pages for each individual programme.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Illness, Absence and Extenuating Circumstances

        
 
         
         
        UCL's policy for Extenuating Circumstances applies to all UCL taught students, including those on Research Masters programmes, and covers all types of assessment,including examinations and coursework. 
 
        If your ability to study is affected by illness, bereavement, personal problems or other difficulties, you must inform the department by providing the below documentation as soon as possible and no later than one week after the circumstance has taken place. You will need to provide:

        	A completed Extenuating Circumstances Claim Form. Your form must say what type of mitigation you are asking for, e.g. a coursework deadline extension of up to one week, or Special Assessment Arrangements (for short-term conditions) or other situations. You must also clearly state the modules/ components for which you are seeking mitigation; claims will not be considered for any modules not identified on the EC Claim Form.


 
         	Written evidence of your problem and how serious it has been (e.g. a Doctor's note or other document or letter)

All documentation should be submitted to the department's Teaching and Learning Manager.  
 
        Depending on the type of extenuating circumstances claim, it will be handled by the Programme Director (coursework extensions of up to one week), UCL's Special Assessment Arrangements (SAA) Panel, or the Departmental Extenuating Circumstances Panel. 
 
        Please see UCL's Guidance for Students for more information on the Extenuating Circumstances policy, or you can view the full regulations in the UCL Academic Manual. 
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Graduation

        
 
         
         
        Everyone who receives a degree or graduate diploma from UCL is eligible to attend a graduation ceremony. There are full details at the Graduation Ceremonies website 
 
        Places at graduation ceremonies are not automatically allocated. You need to use the online booking site to indicate your wish to attend and purchase your ticket. You must do this before the deadline to guarantee your place. See the tickets page for more information. 
 
        You can check your eligibility by looking on your Portico homepage. If you are eligible, once the application process begins you will have a link to purchase tickets in the Graduation Ceremonies container. If you feel you are eligible but do not have a link please contact the Student Support and Events Team. 
 
        You do not have to attend a ceremony and your award is not affected by your attendance.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Changing Your Degree

        
 
         
         
        Students are able to transfer between the MEng and BSc Computer Science programmes, (subject to approval and completion of the necessary paperwork).   
 
        Please see our dedicated information page for further details. 

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Personal Tutors/ Tutorial Groups

        
 
         
         
        Every undergraduate student will be allocated a personal tutor at the start of their studies, and in the vast majority of cases will keep this tutor throughout their studies with us. The Departmental Teaching Committee has set out some guidelines to help you understand what you can expect from this relationship.  
 
        Taught master's students may instead have a tutorial group which meets collectively. See the pages for your programme for further details, and make sure you take a careful note of arrangements given at the start of term. 
 
        See also information on attendance and engagement, and illness, absence and extenuating circumstances below.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Moodle

        
 
         
         
        Moodle is UCL's e-learning environment. Each taught module in Computer Science has an accompanying Moodle page, and it is your responsibility to make sure you are signed up for each module you are taking. Moodle will be used by your lecturers to communicate with you, so it is very important that you listen out for instructions during your first lectures (some lecturers will give out an 'enrolment key' to enable you to sign up). Check out the 'quick start guide' for an introduction.

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         LectureCast

        
 
         
         
        LectureCast is a system for recording lectures and subsequently making them available via Moodle. The department operates a policy that all regular teaching that takes place in rooms equipped with LectureCast will be recorded. Currently, it is at the discretion of individual lecturers as to whether recordings are published. 
 
        The schedule for LectureCast recordings is here
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Portico

        
 
         
         
        The Student Information Portal, 'Portico', should be your first port of call for all student record related issues such as selecting your module options, amending your personal details and viewing your exam results.  It is particularly important that you ensure your contact details are always up-to-date, so that important communications don't go astray.

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 07 Feb 2017 and is maintained by 
      Chris Neil 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
