 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Technology is not Neutral
 
         
          
          

         
 
         The "Technology Is Not Neutral" exhibition will take place the at the Watermans Arts Centre from 4th November 2016 to 8th January 2017 September.  
 
         "Technology Is Not Neutral" is a touring exhibition project that highlights and investigates the work of a group of women artists in the field of digital arts. This new curatorial project explores methods of working with new technologies and the themes that bring these artists together. 
 
         From drone choreography, sequencing of bacteria and brainwave art to hacking reality, social media activism and telepresence, this exhibition highlights the contribution of female artists in shaping what digital art is today. The exhibition title references the challenges faced by female artists in this field where they are often under-represented. 
 
         The Technology is Not Neutral project targets the frequent under-representation of the achievements of women in the field of digital art by highlighting the contribution of female artists in shaping what digital art is today. The project was launched at the Brighton Digital Festival in September, and now tours to Watermans Arts Centre, London. The main exhibition is accompanied by a series of in-depth workshops by exhibiting artists, and a thought-provoking symposium exploring the causes of female under-representation. 
 
         The curatorial concept for the exhibition focuses on the diversity of approaches and methodologies used by female digital artists, including sequencing of bacteria, robotic performance, data as an artistic medium, biologically inspired simulation, site specific online transmission, digital print, kinetic art, telepresence, social media activism, drone choreography, brain wave art and hacking reality. The show, curated by Gordana Novakovic, Anna Dumitriu and Irini Papadimitriou, features pioneering, recent, and newly commissioned work by leading artists Ghislaine Boddington, Susan Collins, Laura Dekker, Anna Dumitriu, Bhavani Esapathi, Julie Freeman, Kate Genevieve, Sue Gollifer, Luciana Haill, Nina Kov, and Gordana Novakovic. 
 
         The exhibition is funded by Arts Council England, The Computer Arts Society, and UCL Department of Computer Science and supported by Women Shift Digital, Phoenix Brighton and Watermans.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 07 Nov 16 10:30 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Today marks official... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL research scrutinises...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
