 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help
      ›› TYPO3 ›› Rich Text Editor 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
        

        
	Old readers start here

	General Principles

	The TYPO3 "Backend"

	Content Elements

	Editing Content
	Rich Text Editor

	Inserting Images

	Managing Links

	Formats and Styles

	Creating New Pages

	Page properties

	Moving and Copying pages

	The UCL-CS Templates

	Adding Content

	Dividers

	The "Text and Images" element

	Files and TYPO3

	Automatic Menus

	Someone is editing my page!

	Cutting and Pasting

	Spelling check

	Managing your work

	Tracking changes

	Rolling Back

	Hiding pages

	Hiding content elements

	Working in a Draft Workspace

	Previewing your draft

	Publishing from the Draft Workspace

	Browser set-up

	TYPO3 v4.5 - The main changes

	TYPO3 v4.5 - Some more changes

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Introduction

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Files

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Images

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Extensions

	Training


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
        
        
         
        
         The Rich Text Editor

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          Saving your work
 
          Icons at the top of the editing screen relate to saving your work and quitting the editor:

           Save the current version and continue editing (see below);

           Save the current version and view a final version of the complete page;

           Save the current version and quite the editor;

           Save the current version and begin work on a new content element;

           Quit the editor with out saving any changes.
 
          The Editing Screen
 
           

          The editing screen (see right) has a number of tabs. For now we just need the General tab which allows an optional header to be given to the content element and the main text of the element to be edited. (It also allows the Type of the content element to be changed but we will ignore this for now.)
The editor includes many of the features you would expect to find in a word-processor. The illustration shows the icons at the top of the Rich Text Editor screen. Most of these will be familiar from other editors; further, you will get a hint when you point at an icon. The next three pages give a little more information on; 
          inserting images, 
          managing links and 
          selecting styles.
          
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        HTML Restrictions
 
        TYPO3 takes a view on what is and is not a reasonable way to construct the HTML code which underlies web pages. It enforces this by removing things it doesn't like. If you stick to normal run-of-the-mill formatting you should not encounter any problems, however.
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         Warning

        
 
         
         
        The TYPO3 Rich Text Editor includes a trap for the unwary! 
 
        When you quit most editor programs they warn you if you have not saved your latest changes. The TYPO3 Rich Text Editor does not do this! This means, for example, that if you browse to another location from the editor window you will lose any unsaved changes.

        Therefore - be very careful to save changes regularly by clicking the  icon at the top of the page.

        [Note that there is no problem with switching to another application, a new browser window or a new tab. You just have to remember not to overwrite the window you are using for editing.]
 
         
       
 
        
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
