 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help
      ›› TYPO3 ›› The UCL-CS Templates 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
        

        
	Old readers start here

	General Principles

	The TYPO3 "Backend"

	Content Elements

	Editing Content

	Rich Text Editor

	Inserting Images

	Managing Links

	Formats and Styles

	Creating New Pages

	Page properties

	Moving and Copying pages
	The UCL-CS Templates

	Adding Content

	Dividers

	The "Text and Images" element

	Files and TYPO3

	Automatic Menus

	Someone is editing my page!

	Cutting and Pasting

	Spelling check

	Managing your work

	Tracking changes

	Rolling Back

	Hiding pages

	Hiding content elements

	Working in a Draft Workspace

	Previewing your draft

	Publishing from the Draft Workspace

	Browser set-up

	TYPO3 v4.5 - The main changes

	TYPO3 v4.5 - Some more changes

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Introduction

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Files

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Images

	TYPO3 v6.2 - Extensions

	Training


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
        
        
         
        
         UCL-CS Layouts

        
 
         
         
        
          
           
          All pages created in this area of the UCL-CS website conform to a consistent style which is determined by a template. There are three template variants and 8 colour-schemes. You do not have to choose the colour-scheme - it will be set automatically depending on which area the page belongs to (students, admissions, business, etc.). You do have to choose the template variant and this is done by selecting a Page Layout on the page properties form using the Appearance tab.
 
           
         

         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         The Two Column Template

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig 1. UCL-CS "Two Column" template
            	


          

         

          
           
          This is the default for all new pages (Fig. 1). The main column contains the principal text of the page while the left-hand column contains an automatically generated menu of neighbouring pages. 

          You can add further items below the automatic menu in the left column if you choose. To do this you add a content element to the Left column of the page. It is suggested that the items you add should be formatted as a bullet list. They will appear as such when viewed in the Rich Text Editor but will be formatted like the automatic items (i.e. without bullets) when the page is viewed.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         The Single Column Template

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig 2. UCL-CS "One Column" template
            	


          

         

          
           
          This one eliminates the left-hand column (hence no menus) and the grey area on the right-hand side (Fig. 2).
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         The Two Column with Image Template

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig 3. UCL-CS "Two Column plus Image" template
            	


          

         

          
           
          This one adds a poster image to the Two Column template (Fig. 3). 

          If you simply select this template and do nothing else then the image will be chosen at random each time the page is displayed. 

          If you want to choose the image yourself then you must create an Images only content element in the Right column. The image should be 660 pixels wide by 235 pixels high.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         The Two Column with Navigation Template

        
 
         
         
        
         
          
           
             Fig 4. UCL-CS "Two Column plus Navigation" template
            	


          

         

          
           
          This one adds navigation bars at the top and bottom of each page - arrowed in Fig. 4. It is used for the page you are reading. The navigation bars provide Prev, Next, First and Last links on each page and are useful in a lengthy series of linked pages that,   typically, are read in succession. 

          Note that as currently set up this template assumes that all the related pages are on a single level.
 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
       
        
         Prev | 
         Next
        

        
         First | 
         Last
        

       

       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
