 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Teaching & Learning
      ›› Student Information ›› Timetables 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        ACADEMIC TIMETABLES 2016-17
 
        Quick link to MPEB lab timetables, updated weekly during term-time. Please note that the quick link to these will only appear during term time. 
 
        The academic year starts on Monday 26 September 2016 and timetables are accessed via the UCL online timetable web page. Each week in the timetable has a corresponding number. Week number 1 is the week each year which contains the 1st of September, so Induction Week is week 5 and the teaching timetable begins in week 6. Once you have accessed a timetable you use the 'change display' tab to filter to a single week, a whole term or the whole year. 
 
        There are several different ways you can access the information within the system: 
 
        1. Your Personal Timetable 
 
        To access your personal timetable you need to log in to the online timetable with your UCL userid and password. Your personal timetable displays the modules you are registered for in Portico. Students are automatically registered for modules compulsory to their programme so you will be able to view these in your timetable straight away. Your option choices will only appear in your personal timetable once you have registered for them in Portico. There is a link from the 'select your modules' screen to the timetable, so you can check that your option choices do not clash with your compulsory modules before you select them. Once you select and confirm your options in Portico, they will appear in your timetable the following day. If a module selection is rejected or deleted in Portico, it will be removed from your timetable the following day. 
 
        Each event that appears in your timetable has a listed type, e.g. 'lecture', 'practical', 'problem based learning'. You should attend ALL lectures. Where you are automatically assigned to a smaller group such as a practical or problem class by the department, only the group you have been assigned to will appear in your personal timetable. Until you have been allocated to a particular group, you will be able to see all the groups. 
 
        Modules where students will be automatically assigned to groups are as follows:

        	COMP101P Principles of Programming (Lab A-E)
	COMP102P Theory I (Problem Class 1 or 2)
	COMP103P Object Oriented Programming (Lab A-E)
	COMP105P Robotics Programming (Lab A-E)
	COMPGC01 Programming (Lab A, B or C)
	COMPGC02 Apps Design (Lab A, B or C)


        If you find that the group you have been assigned to clashes with one of your option choices, please see the Computer Science Teaching and Learning Manager in room 5.22 Malet Place Engineering Building, to change groups. 
 
        For Computer Science modules not listed above, there may be multiple practicals and problem classes that you can attend at any of the times listed. For these modules, ALL practicals and problem classes associated with each will appear in your personal timetable. You may not need to attend all of them, so please make sure you take a careful note of any arrangements for labs and problem classes that your lecturer announces at the first lecture for each module. 
 
        2. Custom Timetable
 
        You can use the custom timetable tool to check where potential option choices are timetabled. 
 
        To access the custom timetable go to www.ucl.ac.uk/timetable. You need to know the full module name or code to find a timetable for it - full instructions are available on the UCL timetable page. 
 
        3. Degree Programme Timetables
 
        You can access degree programme timetables from www.ucl.ac.uk/timetable. 
 
        4. Exam and Revision timetables

        	The Revision Lecture timetable is produced by Computer Science and will be available in March 2017. 
	The Examination timetable is produced by the UCL Examinations Office and will be made available via Portico in mid-late March 2017.


        5. Maps and locations of teaching rooms

        	UCL Route Finder (find the quickest route between teaching venues)

	Map of UCL Bloomsbury Campus
	Map of surrounding area 
	UCL academic calendar

 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         INDUCTION TIMETABLES

        
 
         
         
        Please click here to access timetables of induction activities, most of which take place in the week commencing Monday 26 September 2016.Please contact your programme administrator for any queries.
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
