 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Help
      ›› TYPO3 ›› Training 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        Welcome to the TYPO3 training exercises. 
 
        With TYPO3 you use your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox etc.) both to view pages and to edit them. In order to do these training exercises you will need to keep at least two browser windows open; one to read the instructions the other to perform the edits. Sometimes you will need a third window to view the results. 
 
        Note: Most people find it easier to use tabs rather than separate browser windows. Ask for help if you don't know how to set your browser up to use tabs. 
 
        Note: Sometimes TYPO3 pops up additional windows or tabs. Some browsers prevent this by default. You will need to enable pop-ups for www.cs.ucl.ac.uk. Ask if you do not know how to set you browser up to allow this. 
 
        There is a brief PowerPoint introduction to TYPO3 here. 
 
        Clicking the link below will open a second browser window (the "editing window") which will display the TYPO3 login dialogue. You should then login using the username and password that has been issued to you. Once you have logged in please return to this browser window (the "instruction window") so you know what to do next. 
 
        Start a new browser window and login to TYPO3>>> 
 
        You should see something like this in the editing window:
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
            
             
            

           

          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        This shows the TYPO3 "tree view" of a small portion of the CS website. 
 
        You are now ready to begin Exercise 1.
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
