 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Assessment Results ›› Transcripts 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

          
           
          	Am I able to get a transcripts of my results?
	Can I get additional copies?
	Degree Certificates
	Do I need to do anything?
	I'm an Affiliate Student. Who produces my transcript?
	I'm a Research Student. Who produces my transcript?
	When will I get my transcript and degree certificate?

 
           
         

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Am I able to get a transcripts of my results?

        	Yes - Official transcripts, detailing examinations taken and results achieved, are issued automatically to all graduating students by the Exams Section of the UCL Registry and sent to students' contact addresses. 


	Continuing students or those requiring unofficial transcripts should print them directly from their Portico accounts.  


	Please note that these documents will be sent by special delivery so cannot be sent to impersonal addresses as they must be signed for on receipt. 

 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Can I get additional Copies?

        	Yes - see www.ucl.ac.uk/current-students/exams_and_awards/qualifications/transcripts for details.  
	Please note that there is a charge for this service.

 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Degree Certificates

        	Degree certificates are also sent out automatically to all graduating students
	These certificates are official documents and UCL takes the issue and verification of them very seriously. 
	You will only be issued with one degree certificate so it should be retained in a safe place. 
	UCL will not provide you with duplicates of your degree certificate and will not automatically issue you with a replacement should you lose the original.  

 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        Do I need to do anything?

        	Yes. - You need to ensure that your CONTACT ADDRESS in Portico is correct, else your transcript may be sent to the wrong place.  This is especially important if you are leaving the UK. 
	If you fail to update your address prior to the dispatch of your documents you may be charged for the redelivery cost. 

 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        I'm an Affiliate Student. Who produces my transcript?

        	Transcripts for affiliate students are produced by UCL Student and Registry Services. Please contact them directly for further details. 

 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        I'm a Research Student. Who produces my transcript?

        	Transcripts for research students are produced by Student Records.  Please contact them directly for further details.

 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        When will I get my transcript and degree certificate?

        	Transcripts and degree certificates can only begin to be produced after your award has been ratified by the UCL Board of Examiners. 
	This is different depending on your degree programme but both are usually sent shortly after the results appear online.  

 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         
          
           
          

         

        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Chris Neil 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
