 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL crowned first ever UK University Cipher Champion
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Dr Nicolas Courtois, Senior Lecturer at UCL-CS has beaten tough competition from some of the UK’s leading universities for Computer Science to be crowned the winner of a unique code-breaking competition as part of this year’s Cyber Security Challenge UK. 
 
         The University Cipher Challenge is the first competition of its kind and was launched by the Cyber Security Challenge UK to identify and inspire students interested in entering cyber security careers to practise their skills. For this proof of concept, four Computer Science departments from UCL, The University of Birmingham, Edinburgh Napier University and The University of Bristol accepted the challenge to develop their own cipher – a puzzle based on encrypted messages – that was released to other participating universities and Challenge candidates to break.Dr Nicolas Courtois says: “Computer Science Department at UCL is delighted to have been announced as the winner of the University Cipher Challenge. We take an experimental approach to our teaching to ensure that our students have both the practical skills and the necessary expertise to solve any problem they face in the real-world. The Challenge enabled all students involved to learn a lot from their peers in a stimulating and competitive environment – both of which are integral to encouraging more people to get involved in the exciting world of cyber security. We were particularly delighted with the level of female participation from UCL’s department in the competition and we will be awarding a special, individual prize to our top cipher scorer, who happens to be female. We look forward to defending our crown in future competitions from the Cyber Security Challenge!” 
 
         For more see here.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 14 Mar 13 11:46 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Going Paperless: The... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Chirp app nominated for...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
