 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL Engineering & The Bartlett to expand into new space at Here East
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL Engineering and The Bartlett, UCL’s faculty of the Built Environment, will be expanding into premises at Here East on Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in early 2016. 
 
         Next year, UCL will take possession of 3,000 square metres of 10 metre high studio space at Here East which will be used to undertake ground-breaking research in areas including architecture, infrastructure, transport, robotics, healthcare, manufacturing and environmental measurement. UCL will also develop new education programmes in creative design, using film and performance as well as robotic and networked screen technologies.
 
         The scale and novelty of the scheme will enable UCL to pursue new and exciting projects to strengthen interdisciplinary research and teaching. The move also signals UCL’s commitment to engaging with the local community and the London Legacy Development Corporation in advance of the opening of the new campus, UCL East, on Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in 2019. 
 
         The deal cements Here East as a destination for creativity and invention, bringing together education, business, technology, media and data to collaborate in its pursuit of innovation. Here East occupy the former press and broadcast centres on the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park and provide over one million square feet of versatile spaces. 
 
         UCL’s space will be designed by leading architects Hawkins\Brown, who are also responsible for the design of Here East. 
 
         Professor, Anthony Finkelstein, Dean of UCL Engineering, said: “As a first step in developing its exciting and important presence on the QEOP, UCL will be bringing fabrication, prototyping, manufacturing and robotics to Here East. Our activity, which will span research and teaching also brings together work on engineering and the built environment in a new combination that will cross disciplinary barriers and generate new ideas and technologies."
 
         Professor Alan Penn, Dean of The Bartlett, UCL, said: “By bringing creative design under the same roof as advanced technological research, with the space to learn about collaborative creativity from the performing arts, we aim to build the cadre of tech savvy creative designers and engineers needed to drive a UK manufacturing renaissance.”
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 29 Jul 15 07:55 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Coding 'transplant'... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL is founder member of...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
