 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL partnership to explore the future of 'Connected' Healthcare
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Nuffield Health has announced a partnership with UCL Faculty of Engineering to study and strongly evidence the social and economic benefits of connected healthcare – a process that brings together inputs, delivery, diagnostics, treatment, care, rehabilitation and health promotion. 
 
         Alan Payne, Chief Digital and Information Officer commented: “Nuffield Health is a unique organisation that brings health and wellbeing together through our network of hospitals and fitness & wellbeing centres. We see connected healthcare as a natural foundation for the future of how we deliver health services through a continuum of care to the people of the UK. At its core, connected healthcare improves access, efficiency and quality which lead to better outcomes for our members and patients.”
 
         The multi-year research programme will focus on leveraging the joint expertise of Nuffield Health and UCL delivering research results and a real-world evidence base that enhances understanding of connected healthcare. 
 
         “We live in an age where technology allows us to gather and share information quickly and easily. What we don’t always see is that capability transferring to the maximal benefit of patients. This research initiative aims to quantify the benefits of healthcare being viewed as an everyday matter in all aspects of our lives, not just something we address when things go wrong,” said Alan.
 
         The collaboration will allow UCL students to undertake projects and internships with Nuffield Health, augmenting their education through real-world projects while simultaneously enriching Nuffield Health employees with access to UCL’s advanced research techniques. 
 
         Jane Butler, Vice Dean from University College London said: “We are extremely excited about working with Nuffield Health on the future of connected healthcare. Our students and staff can bring a wealth of research knowledge and outcomes to the understanding and adoption of connected healthcare. By partnering with Nuffield Health we will be undertaking transformational projects changing the lives of many”
 
         Data from all projects undertaken as part of the partnership will be published and used to help educate on the implications of healthcare integration.
 
         The partnership commences with a study into how health and fitness data gathered from elite sporting performance could be used to improve the health of the general population.  
 
         Contact: 
 
          Jamie Keenan
 Email: jamie.keenan@nuffieldhealth.com 
 Tel: 01372 426 700 
 
         About Nuffield Health: 
 
         · Nuffield Health provides access to more than 10,000 health experts through our 
 31 hospitals, 77 fitness & wellbeing gyms and more than 210 corporate facilities to help people get healthy and stay healthy 
 
         · We are the UK’s leading employee health and wellbeing provider and work with more than 60% of the FTSE 100 
 
         · Our nationwide network of physiotherapists is the largest in the UK outside of the NHS 
 
         · As a not-for-profit organisation, we reinvest everything back into the organisation to improve our facilities and services and provide public health education 
 
         · For further information please see nuffieldhealth.com
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 12 Apr 16 17:18 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Anthony Steed wins 2016... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: UCL sheds light on...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
