 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL Students take part in "International Capture the Flag Competition"
 
         
          
          

         
 
         On 4th December, a team of students from UCL CS took part in the International Capture the Flag Competition (iCTF). The iCTF is the largest academic hacking competition in the world, and 35 teams from all over the world participated in this year's edition.
 
         The UCL team, named THOR,  was composed of Tom Sigler, Chris Park, Jason Papapanagiotakis, Azeem Ilyas, Salman Khalifa, Luke Roberts, Haran Anand, Alexis Enston, Austin Chamberlain, Jaromir Latal, Enrico Mariconti, and Razvan Ragazan. Ours was the only team representing the UK.
 
         The students had to create a vulnerable program for other teams to exploit, find vulnerabilities in the programs written by other teams, and write both exploits and patches. In the end, the UCL team ranked 14th out of 35. As Gianluca Stringhini, the team's academic supervisor says: "Given that it was our first time participating, I believe this is a great result. We ranked better than teams who have been participating in these competitions for years." More details of the competition can be found at http://scoreboard.ictf2015.net/results/index.html#/scores?_k=ywukty (For reasons that are not clear, the team still appears to be climbing the leaderboard, but it did in fact finish 14th).
 
         Once again, it is absolutely fantastic to see our students taking on big challenges, with the help and guidance of UCL CS academics, coming together to represent the department (and the UK) so effectively. Many congratulations to all who took part, and many thanks to Gianluca without whose enthusiasm in training and supporting our team this would not have been possible. To those that would like to participate in any type of competition in future, we would be most happy to find ways of supporting you - contact me in the first instance. Finally, I give you Team THOR....
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 07 Dec 15 10:44 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL-CS Graduate wins... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Gödel and Turing enter...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
