 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL at Droidcon
 
         
          
          

         
 
         On 25 and 26 October UCL Advances, with UCL Engineering, will be taking a stand at Droidcon. Droidcon is part of a worldwide movement to expose the best of Android. It covers all things Android, from mobile devices, to TV, to cars, to gaming, and so much more. 
 
         We’ll be there to raise the profile of all the support UCL Advances can offer to tech start ups and SMEs and to promote the fantastic opportunities for under-graduate and post-graduate students studying Computer Science at UCL.  We are proud that UCL is the first UK university to include app development as part of core curriculum programming teaching for ALL its Computer Science courses.  We’ll be showcasing some great Apps developed by current UCL students. 
 
         As various companies sell apps by the billions globally, software developers are approaching the field of apps as an increasingly foundational and key skill for software engineering. It demonstrates the ability to work with finely tuned software engineering problems, linking to existing data systems and produce unique technology that can be used on-the-go to collect, share and disseminate information. 
 
         UCL-CS is already preparing its students for the demands of the market place. The software engineering lifecycle of apps development is now included in our teaching for Undergraduate and Postgraduate Computer Science, Financial Computing, Software Systems Engineering and Financial Systems Engineering Master’s programmes. It will also be extended into many more teaching programmes. 
 
         UCL-CS is a global leader in research in experimental computer science.  Throughout its history UCL-CS has had a big impact on the European computing landscape – notably, establishing the first connection to the precursor of the Internet outside the United States. We continue to create innovative technologies that change lives with computers. We continue to change the world.


 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 25 Oct 12 09:23 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Of Rats and Men >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Fugue installation...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
