 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCL Engineering's response to the EU Referendum Result
 
         
          
          

         
 
         A message from The Provost 
 
         The outcome of the referendum is now known. While UCL did not take a formal position during the referendum campaign, I have given my personal view and you will have heard many other voices from the UCL community. The loss of EU membership will have a clear impact on universities such as UCL, particularly around the mobility of students and funding of research.
 
         Today, more than ever, I want to reaffirm that UCL remains a global university through our outlook, people and enduring international partnerships. I also want in particular to address UCL’s staff and students from all countries of the European Union. We value you enormously – your contribution to UCL life is intrinsic to what the university stands for.
 
         I have reassured UCL staff and students that, barring unilateral action from the UK government, the vote to leave the European Union does not mean there will be any immediate material change to the immigration status of current and prospective EU students and staff, nor to the UK university sector’s participation in EU programmes such as Horizon 2020 and Erasmus+. Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty foresees a two-year negotiation process between the UK and other member states, during which time the terms of the UK’s exit from the European Union will be decided.
 
         There will be many questions from many people in the UCL community and beyond about what this vote means for UCL. We will address these as a matter of priority as the details become clear.
 
         UCL President & Provost, Professor Michael Arthur  
 
         A message from the Dean of Engineering 
 
         I want to reassure  all  students and staff of my support as valued members of our engineering community. Our mission of Change the World remains as true as ever in what will inevitably be uncertain times.
 
         We are part of  a truly global university with a vision and reach that is unique. With our many valued partners we will continue to demonstrate leadership. We will have to be patient and keep cool heads as we navigate in uncharted waters. I am confident however that we can do this and remain strong, successful and above all, inclusive.
 
         Dean of Engineering, Professor Nigel Titchener-Hooker 
 
         A message from the Vice Dean, Research 
 
         The UK will remain a full member of the EU for at least the next two years, and as such will continue to participate fully in EU funded research programmes – principally Horizon 2020 and the European Research Council. After that, it is clear that the UK will negotiate to retain access to EU funding on as favourable terms as possible (you can see Jo Johnson’s statement here). It is highly likely that we will still be able to apply for funding as, perhaps, an Affiliate Member state. UK Science and Engineering in general, and UCL in particular, punches well above its weight globally, and has made a major contribution to European research over decades. I don’t see how that will be very different in the future. UCL, as London’s global university, is especially well-placed to maximise the opportunities that will arise, and in the Engineering faculty we are particularly outward-looking and well connected to Europe.
 
         In practical terms, the message is that those of you who hold existing research contracts with H2020 and the ERC should assume that they will continue to run to the end of the project. Those of you who are about to negotiate contacts should continue to do so, and those of you who are writing, or beginning to think about writing, new proposals should carry on. We have an excellent track record of success with the EU funding agencies, and we should build on that momentum.
 
         These are uncertain times, but one certainty is that UCL remains a research powerhouse, and is fantastically well placed to maintain that position and perhaps to help define the new relationship that UK Science and Engineering will have with Europe.
 
         Vice Dean: Research, Professor Tony Kenyon 
 
         ___ 
 
         Universities UK have provided some early guidance to answer some common staff and student questions. Please find this below. 
 
         EU staff 
 
         Your immigration status has not changed as a result of the vote. This will remain the case until the Government decides otherwise.
 
         Current EU students 
 
         Your immigration status and associated fee status, as well as your access to the student loan book, have not changed as a result of the vote. This will remain the case until the Government decides otherwise.
 
         EU students with a place to start in academic year 2016/17 and 2017/18 
 
         At this stage, there is no reason to assume any change to your immigration status or access to the student loan book.
 
         EU students studying in the UK under the Erasmus programme 
 
         Your immigration status has not changed, and that you continue to be eligible for your Erasmus grant until at least as long as we remain a member of the EU – and could well be extended beyond this.
 
         UK students studying in the EU and elsewhere under the Erasmus programme 
 
         Your immigration status has not changed, and you continue to be eligible for your Erasmus grant until at least as long as we remain a member of the EU and could well be extended beyond this.
 
         All staff currently undertaking EU funded projects 
 
         The UK’s status as a full participating member of the Horizon 2020 programme has not changed as a result of the referendum vote – existing project grants and contracts will be honoured unless or until advised otherwise.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 04 Jul 16 14:12 
         
 
          
          
           Next: Restored artefact joins... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Anthony Finkelstein...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
