 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCLB spinout Satalia backs optimisation research unit
 
         
          
          

         
 
         Satalia, a UCL Business spin out from the Department of Computer Science at UCL has awarded funding of €465,000 to academics at University of Klagenfurt’s Institute of Mathematics. Award-winning researcher Assistant Professor Dr. Phillip Hungerlander leads the team on this two-year project, which will generate disruptive innovations in Artificial Intelligence and Optimisation Solutions.
 
         The pairing of the Hungerländer academics with Satalia’s own scientists forms a strong multidisciplinary research team of optimisation experts, which will apply methods such as constraint programming and hybrid heuristic optimisation. Termed SORT (the Satalia Optimisation Research Team), their primary goal is to build a state-of-the-art platform for solving large-scale problems with multiple real-world constraints, including in real-time. These types of problems are core to many business efficiency challenges such as vehicle routing, staff scheduling and infrastructure planning, in which Satalia already boasts a number of high profile customers.
 
         Dr. Philipp Hungerländer commented, “Producing non-academic impact from research is an imperative to demonstrating science’s positive contribution to society. This element is now fundamental to attract funding.”
 
         Dr. Daniel Hulme, Satalia CEO said, “Satalia will always recognise the importance of building strategic relationships with academic researchers to access new innovations and accelerate them into industry. Our mission at Satalia is to empower talent to develop innovations that solve hard problems. We have a unique culture and organisational structure that appeals to scholars as we operate without hierarchy and bureaucracy. This gives academics the freedom to pursue research that inspires them and to feel a genuine connectedness to an amazing community of problem solvers. For Satalia this includes some of the best business brains, data scientists, modellers, mathematicians, coders and software developers you can find across the globe.”
 
         Dr. Hungerländer and Dr. Hulme have been invited to address the President of Austria about the collaboration during Philipp’s sub-auspiciis graduation ceremony in April this year.
 
         Visit the Satalia website for more information on current SORT projects: www.satalia.com 
 
         About Satalia: 
 
         Satalia provides clients with large-scale, end-to-end optimisation solutions in areas such as routing, scheduling, planning and verification. The organisation includes a multifaceted team of business analysts, academics, data scientists, optimisation modellers and software developers.
 
         In 2016 Satalia will launch a new service, the SolveEngine, which enables algorithms from academia as Optimisation-as-a-Service.
 
         Satalia has a unique self-organising culture that links teams across Europe and London and supports challenging intern opportunities for business and science students wishing to gain industry experience with Artificial Intelligence and solving hard problems.
 
         Founder and CEO, Dr. Hulme is an advisor to the UK Home Office and has a global reputation for his insights in emerging technology. He is also the Director of Business Analytics MSc at UCL, and has teaching positions in Computer Science and Business at UCL and Pearson College London.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 04 Feb 16 09:37 
         
 
          
          
           Next: EPSRC Autonomous... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: 'Spherical Defence Labs'...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
