 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         UCLB spinout SmartTarget Ltd launches new device for the detection of prostate cancer
 
         
          
          

         
 
         UCL Business spinout SmartTarget Ltd announces the launch of a new device for the detection of prostate cancer. The CE certified SmartTarget system is an image fusion device for guiding targeted, transperineal prostate biopsy.
 
         Designed and developed by world leading urologists and biomedical engineers, the technology enables image-directed tumour targeting during minimally invasive biopsy procedures for prostate cancer patients and has undergone extensive clinical evaluation in over 200 patients at UCLH.
 
         Users of the SmartTarget software benefit from an interface that is intuitive and easy-to-use. Patented, state-of-the-art image fusion techniques allow for a simple and efficient single-user workflow in which changes in the shape and position of the prostate between magnetic resonance (MR) and ultrasound images are automatically compensated for.
 
         SmartTarget is dedicated to providing high accuracy, easy-to-use and affordable medical image fusion solutions for guiding prostate cancer biopsy and minimally-invasive cancer treatments. Its unique technology is based on research by scientists and engineers within UCL’s Centre for Medical Image Computing (CMIC), one of the world’s leading academic groups in the field of medical image processing and analysis.
 
         Chief Scientific Officer and co-inventor of the SmartTarget software and UCL Senior Lecturer Dr Dean Barratt commented: "The SmartTarget software is the culmination of 10 years’ research, and incorporates some of the most advanced technology available in any commercial medical image fusion system. I am delighted that this technology is now able to become widely available to benefit patients across the UK and Europe, and look forward to continuing to develop the software for new medical applications."
 
         Recently demonstrated at the British Association of Urological Surgeons’ annual scientific meeting, the market-ready SmartTarget generated an enthusiastic response from visitors.
 
         CEO Mark Kirby said: “I am very excited to be leading SmartTarget as we commercialise the SmartTarget prostate fusion biopsy system. There are significant changes coming in the care pathway for men with prostate cancer and I believe that SmartTarget is ideally placed to deliver this better and more economic pathway."
 
         Development of the device was supported by funding from the Health Innovation Challenge Fund, a parallel funding partnership between the UK Department of Health and the Wellcome Trust, enabling the company to offer a product that is affordable for both the public and private healthcare sectors. The research was also part-funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) University College London Hospital Biomedical Research Centre (BRC)
 
         About SmartTarget Ltd. 
 
         See www.smarttarget.co.uk for further information. 
 
         Contact: 
 
         Mark Kirby, CEO SmartTarget Ltd 
 
         mark.kirby@smarttarget.co.uk 
 
         +44 (0)207 993 2390 
 
         SmartTarget is a registered trademark of SmartTarget Ltd.
 
         About UCL Business PLC 
 
         UCLB is a leading technology transfer company that supports and commercialises research and innovations arising from UCL, one of the UK’s top research-led universities. UCLB has a successful track record and a strong reputation for identifying and protecting promising new technologies and innovations from UCL academics. UCLB has a strong track record in commercialising medical technologies and provides technology transfer services to UCL’s associated hospitals; University College London Hospitals, Moorfields Eye Hospital, Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children and the Royal Free London Hospital. It invests directly in development projects to maximise the potential of the research and manages the commercialisation process of technologies from laboratory to market. For further information, please visit: www.uclb.com and @UCL_Business on Twitter.
 
         About the NIHR 
 
         The National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) is funded by the Department of Health to improve the health and wealth of the nation through research. The NIHR is the research arm of the NHS. Since its establishment in April 2006, the NIHR has transformed research in the NHS. It has increased the volume of applied health research for the benefit of patients and the public, driven faster translation of basic science discoveries into tangible benefits for patients and the economy, and developed and supported the people who conduct and contribute to applied health research. The NIHR plays a key role in the Government’s strategy for economic growth, attracting investment by the life-sciences industries through its world-class infrastructure for health research. Together, the NIHR people, programmes, centres of excellence and systems represent the most integrated health research system in the world. For further information, visit the NIHR website www.nihr.ac.uk.
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 03 Oct 16 11:13 
         
 
          
          
           Next: How hackers handle... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: AI experts at UCL...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
