 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› CS News Archive 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         Computer Science News Archive

        
 
         
         
         
         Virtual reality study examines GP responses when patients demand antibiotics
 
         
          
          

         
 
         New UCL research finds that both trainee and senior GPs prescribed antibiotics without clinical need when faced with a virtual reality (VR) scenario where patients angrily demanded them.
 
         The study, authored by an interdisciplinary team from UCL Laws, UCL Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, UCL Computer Science and ICREA-University of Barcelona, is published today in PLOS One. It highlights how VR could be of significant use in the education and training of GPs and other professionals who encounter ethical dilemmas.
 
         The scenario, which used the Oculus Rift VR system, placed both trainee and more senior GPs into a virtual consulting room with virtual patients voiced by actors. The scenario involved a daughter pushing for the prescription of antibiotics for her mother (in her 60s) who has a sore throat and cough. 
 
         The medical signs are that this is a virus, however when the GP participating suggests treatment such as rest and paracetamol, the daughter becomes increasingly angry, accusing the doctor of not prescribing the antibiotics because of NHS cuts, and because old people are invisible and no one cares about them. 
 
         8 of the 9 trainees who participated in the study prescribed the antibiotics, compared to 7 out of 12 more senior GPs. The study, although involving a small number of people, demonstrates that GPs of different levels of experience find such situations difficult – as well as showing the potential value of VR scenarios in professional education and training. 
 
         Lead author Dr Sylvie Delacroix (UCL Laws) said: “It is well known that antibiotics are massively over-prescribed and that this contributes to the rise of antibiotic-resistant infections. What should the GP do when faced with a situation like this – prescribe the antibiotics to minimise stress and increase the patient’s likely satisfaction? Refuse the prescription (even if this might jeopardise the long-term relationship with the patient) and live with the risk of potential complications? 
 
         “The first time doctors will encounter such a choice is when they are faced with it. No amount of textbook learning or advice from seniors can substitute for experience. We wanted to see how VR could be used to help understand how GPs respond to this dilemma, as well as whether there might be a difference in response between more senior doctors and recent trainees.”
 
         Co-author Professor Mel Slater (ICREA-University of Barcelona and UCL Computer Science) added: “More than 25 years of research in virtual reality have shown that people tend to respond realistically to virtual events and situations. This study was no exception and in was interesting to see the degree of stress exhibited by the participants in the course of this confrontation – even though the characters and the situation were entirely virtual, it felt real. 
 
         “The idea that professionals can experience such dilemmas in virtual reality before ever confronting them in reality can be compared to a pilot first training on a simulator. Our results suggest that such VR scenarios could be of significant use in the education and training of GPs – and potentially more widely, as many professions face these kind of complex ethical situations.”
 
         Links

         	Research paper in PLOS ONE


         Image

         	Stills from the virtual reality scenario used in the study (Credit: UCL)


         
          oth trainee and senior GPs prescribed antibiotics without clinical need when faced with a virtual reality (VR) scenario where patients angrily demanded them, finds new UCL research. - See more at: www.ucl.ac.uk/news/news-articles/0216/19022016-virtual-reality-study-examines-GP-response-when-patients-demand-antibiotics

          
           oth trainee and senior GPs prescribed antibiotics without clinical need when faced with a virtual reality (VR) scenario where patients angrily demanded them, finds new UCL research. - See more at: www.ucl.ac.uk/news/news-articles/0216/19022016-virtual-reality-study-examines-GP-response-when-patients-demand-antibiotics

          

         

         
          oth trainee and senior GPs prescribed antibiotics without clinical need when faced with a virtual reality (VR) scenario where patients angrily demanded them, finds new UCL research. - See more at: www.ucl.ac.uk/news/news-articles/0216/19022016-virtual-reality-study-examines-GP-response-when-patients-demand-antibiotics

         

         
          Virtual reality study examines GP response when patients demand antibiotics - See more at: www.ucl.ac.uk/news/news-articles/0216/19022016-virtual-reality-study-examines-GP-response-when-patients-demand-antibiotics

         
 
         
 
         
 
         
           Posted 26 Feb 16 12:47 
         
 
          
          
           Next: UCL Students win Google... >

          
 
          
           < Previous: Information Security MSc...

          
 
          
 
         
 
         
 
          
          < Back to: Computer Science News Archive
 
         
 
         
 
        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
        
         News Archive Menu

        
 
         
         
         
         	2017: 1 item
	2016: 65 items
	2015: 49 items
	2014: 43 items
	2013: 37 items

 
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 25 Jan 2017 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
