 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Degree Programme
      ›› Fourth Year ›› Welcome Back 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
         
          
         Welcome to the final year of your MEng degree. 

         
 
         
To reach this point, you have proved yourselves talented and dedicated individuals.  We hope to build on that in the coming year to maximise the range of opportunities available to you in the workplace, and to ensure that the degree with which we expect you to graduate at the end of this year is valued as something worthwhile. As a result, we will be offering a range of advanced options courses. These courses are all selected from our advanced MSc programmes, and the expectations we have for students on them are even higher than any you’ve seen to date; you will need to work hard, and in a highly organised way. Expectations for your individual projects are higher than for those on the BSc, simply because you know more. All this means that you MUST plan to make the most effective use of your time throughout the year – starting right now, otherwise you will not achieve the potential we know you to have.  
         
Fourth year modules, with codes COMPMnnn, are know as M-level modules as they are at Masters level. You should select M-level modules for 
         all your options. 
         

         
Graham Roberts (
         g.roberts@cs.ucl.ac.uk), the 4th year coordinator is ready to help with organisational matters and questions about options.
         

         
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Steve Marchant 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
