 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home ›› Contacts 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        
         The departmental contacts in each area are listed below:

        
 
         
       
 
        
        
        
         
         
         
          
          	Departmental
	Teaching & Students
	Finance
	Research
	Services
	External
	Support

 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              Departmental roles: 

             
 
              
              
             Communications and announcements:
Steve Marchant s.marchant@cs.ucl.ac.uk

General Enquiries:
Facilities and Operations Manager - JJ Giwa j.giwa@ucl.ac.uk
Departmental Office Administrator - Patricia Fenoy p.fenoy@ucl.ac.uk

HR and Staffing Enquiries:
Deputy Departmental Manager - Lynette Hothi  lynette.hothi@ucl.ac.uk
HR Administrator – Lisa Howard  lisa.howard@ucl.ac.uk

Finance Enquiries (Group email admin-finance@cs.ucl.ac.uk):
Departmental Finance Manager - Dawn Bailey dawn.bailey@ucl.ac.uk
Research Finance Manager - Olivier Delacroix o.delacroix@ucl.ac.uk
Finance Administrator - Wendy Richards w.richards@ucl.ac.uk  
 
             Head of Technical Support Group:
Denis Timm d.timm@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Head of Technical Support Group (TSG). The TSG looks after the department's computing facilities, including networks, hardware, software and IT developments. 
 
             Departmental Admin Manager:
Jill Saunders j.saunders@ucl.ac.uk
Head of Professional Services (Administration) team. The team deals with finance, HR, student support, premises, events and external relations, and administrative/management support for teaching and research.
Deputy Departmental Admin Manager:
Lynette Hothi lynette.hothi@ucl.ac.uk

Head of Department:
Professor John Shawe-Taylor j.shawe-taylor@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
Senior executive manager responsible for the leadership, management and strategic direction of the Department.
(For diary enquiries please call 020 7679 3675 (ext 33675) or email Steve Marchant s.marchant@cs.ucl.ac.uk) 
 
             Deputy Heads of Department 
Professor Stephen Hailes s.hailes@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Professor Yvonne Rogers y.rogers@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Professor Anthony Steed a.steed@cs.ucl.ac.uk
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              Teaching and student-related roles

             
 
              
              
             Teaching and Learning Manager 
Nisha Gosai n.gosai@ucl.ac.uk
Management of teaching and student-related areas, including quality assurance, timetabling, curriculum management and assessment arrangements. Line manager to the Teaching and Learning Team:  
 
             Senior Teaching and Learning Administrator (BSc and MEng Computer Science, MEng Mathematical Computation, MEng CS International Programme and undergraduate affiliate students):
Lydia O'Donoghue l.odonoghue@ucl.ac.uk (Sarah Clegg is on maternity leave) 
 
             Senior Teaching and Learning Administrator (MSc Computer Graphics, Vision and Imaging, MSc Software Systems Engineering/MSc Financial Systems Engineering and MSc ICT Innovation):
Tracy Williams tracy.williams@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Senior Teaching and Learning Administrator (MSc Machine Learning, MSc/MRes Computational Statistics and Machine Learning, and MSc Data Science):
Rebecca Martin rebecca.martin@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Senior Teaching and Learning Administrator (QA/projects)
David Howells d.howells@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Teaching and Learning Administrator (MSc Business Analytics, MSc Logic, Semantics and Verification of Programs, MSc/MRes Web Science and Big Data Analytics)
Samantha Bottomley s.bottomley@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Teaching and Learning Administrator (MSc Computational Finance, MSc Information Security, MSc Networked Computer Systems, MSc/MRes Robotics and Computation):
Saini Manninen s.manninen@ucl.ac.uk  (Sean Taylor is on secondment to the Institute of Education) 
 
             Teaching and Learning Administrator (MSc Computer Science):
Sally Longley s.longley@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Postgraduate Administrator (MSc Financial Risk Management): 
Martin Nolan (email TBN. Martin starts on 3 April and will be a member of staff in the Department of Mathematics) 
 
             Senior Teaching Administrator (UCL Interaction Centre - MSc Human-Computer Interaction with Ergonomics):
Jo Pearson jo.pearson@ucl.ac.uk (reports to Louise Gaynor, UCLIC Manager) 
 
             Centre Manager, Financial Computing and Analytics (MRes Financial Computing):
 Yonita Carter y.carter@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Centre Manager, Virtual Environments, Interaction and Visualisation (MRes/EngD VEIV): Charlotte Penny c.penny@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Centre Manager, Complex (MRes Modelling Biological Complexity):
Gemma Ludbrook g.ludbrook@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Director of Studies:
Dr Graham Roberts g.roberts@cs.ucl.ac.uk
A senior role within the Department and key member of the managerial team. Responsible for organisation of teaching and learning within the Department. Leads the development of the curriculum. Coordinates teaching resources. Responsible for the communications and for the management of information relating to teaching across all programmes.
Year Coordinators:
Responsible for operational management of teaching and learning within designated year. Leads team of lecturers in that year. Responsible for the quality and coherence of teaching and key contributor to the development of the curriculum. Responsible for student advice, communications and for the management of information relating to teaching within the year. Responsible for the tutorial programme in the designated year. Responsible for registration of all of that years' students. Responsible for the co-ordination smooth and even distribution of coursework to students of that year. 3rd year coordinator is BSc Computer Science Award Leader. 4th year coordinator is MEng Computer Science Award Leader.
1st Year Coordinator - TBN
2nd Year Coordinator - TBN
3rd Year Coordinator - Professor Mark Handley ucacmha@ucl.ac.uk
4th Year Coordinator - TBN

Departmental Tutor
Dr Graham Roberts g.roberts@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Responsible for undergraduate student welfare and the overall 'learning experience' of undergraduate students. Responsible for undergraduate students with disabilities and special needs. 
 
             Undergraduate Admissions Tutor
Dr Danail Stoyanov danail.stoyanov@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             (Deputy: Cathy Holloway c.holloway@ucl.ac.uk)
Responsible for the departmental aspects of undergraduate student admissions including targets and entry standards and monitoring student performance with respect to the entry standards. 
 
             Tutor for affiliate and ancillary students
Vacancy (Jens Krinke j.krinke@ucl.ac.uk)
Tutor for in-coming students from other departments and institutions studying in Computer Science, or on modules offered by the department. This includes registration processes and student advice, the management of information required by affiliate and ancillary students, and liaison with other departments and institutions as appropriate. 
 
             Study Abroad Tutor Earl Barr e.barr@ucl.ac.uk
Tutor for out-going students on the MEng Computer Science (International Programme). This includes registration processes and student advice, the management of information required by study abroad students, and liaison with partner institutions. Award Leader and responsible for the management and development of the MEng Computer Science (International Programme). 
 
             Undergraduate Examinations Coordinator:
John Dowell j.dowell@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Responsible for the conduct and integrity of assessment and examinations for all undergraduate awards. Responsible for processes to prepare exam question papers for undergraduate exams. Responsible for the preparation and presentation of all assessment and examination results to the Undergraduate Board of Examiners. Chair of Undergraduate Board of Examiners. Deals with undergraduate exam irregularities and plagiarism cases. 
 
             Postgraduate Examinations Co-ordinator:
Denise Gorse d.gorse@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Responsible for the conduct and integrity of assessment and examinations for MSc programmes.  Responsible for processes to prepare exam question papers for MSc exams. Ensures coherence among the separate awards. Chair of the Exam Board meetings for each MSc programme. Deals with MSc exam irregularities and plagiarism cases. 
 
             Academic Co-ordinator for Master's Programmes:
Robin Hirsch r.hirsch@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Oversight of the department's masters teaching, including periodic reviews, rationalisation of modules, leading new developments and ensuring co-ordination where necessary between our offerings. 
 
             Teaching Support Coordinator:
Gabriel Brostow g.brostow@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Responsible for managing teaching support across all programmes. Responsible for the effective running of teaching support work undertaken by research staff and PhD students. This includes maintaining current information about research staff teaching interests and abilities, organising appropriate training, allocating responsibilities in a fair and transparent way, and monitoring the running of the scheme.  Liaises between research staff and academic staff to ensure that there is continuing professional development and appropriate engagement. Acts as a focal point for addressing any legitimate student concerns. 
 
             Projects Coordinator:
Graham Roberts g.roberts@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
Responsible for managing student projects (undergraduate and MSc CS), including arrangements for students to select/be assigned topics and supervisors, guidelines and procedures to be followed during the project, and assessment processes.
Programme Directors:
Responsible for the programme(s) in their domain. Leads the team of lecturers with interests and/or teaching in that domain. Responsible for operational management of teaching and learning within that domain. Responsible for the quality and coherence of teaching and a key contributor to the development of the curriculum. Responsible for student advice, communications and for the management of information relating to teaching in that domain. Responsible for awards made (i.e. Award Leader for the appropriate specialist MSc award.) Advises the Postgraduate Examinations Co-ordinator on admissions to those awards.  
 
             MSc Business Analytics - Daniel Hulme d.hulme@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc Computational Statistics and Machine Learning - David Barber d.barber@cs.ucl.ac.uk  
 
             MSc Computer Graphics, Vision and Imaging - Lourdes Agapito l.agapito@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc Computer Science - Kevin Bryson k.bryson@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc Computational Finance - Guido Germano g.germano@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc Data Science - David Barber david.barber@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc Financial Risk Management  - Fabio Caccioli f.caccioli@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc ICT Innovation - Shi Zhou s.zhou@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc Information Security - Emiliano De Cristofaro e.decristofaro@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc Machine Learning - Mark Herbster m.herbster@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc Networked Computer Systems - Mark Handley m.handley@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc Logic, Semantics and Verification of Programs - Alexandra Silva alexandra.silva@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc/MRes Robotics and Computation - Danail Stoyanov danail.stoyanov@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc Software Systems Engineering and MSc Financial Systems Engineering - Jens Krinke j.krinke@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MSc/MRes Web Science and Big Data Analytics - Jun Wang j.wang@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             MRes/EngD Virtual Environments, Imaging and Visualisation - Anthony Steed a.steed@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Financial Computing projects and internships:
Donald Lawrence d.lawrence@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
Liaison with financial institutions and organisation of finance-related student projects/internships. 
 
             Financial Computing Outreach and Business Relationship Analyst:
Asta Barry asta.barry@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Women in CS Coordinator: 
Zhaoping Li Zhaoping.Li@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Responsible for initiatives to support and encourage women in computer science. 
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              Finance roles

             
 
              
              
             Departmental Finance Manager:
Dawn Bailey d.bailey@cs.ucl.ac.uk
All aspects of the department's financial management. Advice on financial arrangements and processes. 
 
             Research Finance Manager:
Olivier Delacroix o.delacroix@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
All aspects of the department's financial management relating to research grants, contracts and consultancy. Advice on financial arrangements and processes. 
 
             Finance Administrator:
Wendy Richards W.Richards@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Processing of financial transactions, including purchasing. Advice on financial arrangements and processes.
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              Research-related roles

             
 
              
              
             Director of Research
Daniel Alexander d.alexander@ucl.ac.uk
A senior role within the Department. Responsible for the intellectual leadership, management and strategic direction of research within UCL Computer Science. Coordinates research resources. Responsible for the development and execution of the department's overall research strategy. 
 
             Deputy Director of Research
Licia Capra l.capra@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Heads of Research Groups: 
 
             Autonomous Systems - Steve Hailes s.hailes@ucl.ac.uk 
Bioinformatics - David Jones d.jones@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Financial Computing and Analytics - Tomaso Aste t.aste@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Human-Centred Systems - Yvonne Rogers y.rogers@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Intelligent Systems - Anthony Hunter a.hunter@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Information Security - George Danezis g.danezis@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Media Futures - Ingemar Cox i.cox@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
Systems and Networks - Brad Karp b.karp@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Programming Principles, Logic and Verification - David Pym - d.pym@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Software Systems Engineering - Emmanuel Letier e.letier@ucla.c.uk
Vision and Imaging Science - Simon Arridge - s.arridge@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Virtual Environments & Computer Graphics - Anthony Steed - a.steed@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Industrial Collaboration and Outreach
Jane Butler jane.butler@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Research Finance Manager
Olivier Delacroix o.delacroix@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
Management of the department's research finances, including costings and submission of proposals for research grants and contracts. 
 
             Manager, Centre for Doctoral Training in Financial Computing and Analytics
Yonita Carter y.carter@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Management of the Doctoral Training Centre and student administration for the Financial Computing MRes and PhD programmes. 
 
             Manager, Centre for Virtual Environments, Interaction and Visualisation - Charlotte Penny charlotte.penny@ucl.ac.uk
Management of the VEIV Centre and student administration for the MRes and EngD programmes. 
 
             Manager, CoMPLEX (UCL Centre for Computation, Mathematics and Physics in the Life Sciences and Experimental Biology)
Gemma Ludbrook g.ludbrook@ucl.ac.uk
Management of the CoMPLEX Centre and student administration for the MRes and EngD programmes. 
 
             Research Administrator
Sarah Turnbull cs.researchdegrees@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Administrative support for all aspects of PhD programmes in the department, from admission to graduation. Secretary to the Department's Research Committee, and Departmental RPS (publications) administrator, supporting REF and Open Access processes.  
 
             Research Administrator, DISTRO Project
Julia Savage j.savage@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             RISCS Centre Administrator/PA (Temporary)
Remi Adeyemi r.adeyemi@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Research Centre Administrator, CREST
Katie Bourke k.bourke@ucl.ac.uk 
 
             
Graduate Tutor/Research Student Co-ordinator 
Anthony Hunter a.hunter@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Responsible for research student admissions. Takes a lead role in setting targets and entry standards. Responsible for monitoring research student progress and for the integrity of the processes leading to thesis submission and examination. Responsible for the quality of the 'learning experience' offered to research students. Coordinates skills training and seminar programmes for research students. Principal liaison with the Graduate School.

Deputy Graduate Tutor/Deputy Research Student Coordinator
Brad Karp b.karp@cs.ucl.ac.uk 

Director, Centre for Virtual Environments, Interaction and Visualisation 
Anthony Steed a.steed@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Director, Centre for Doctoral Training in Financial Computing and Analytics
Philip Treleaven p.treleaven@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Deputy Director, Centre for Doctoral Training in Financial Computing and Analytics
Tomaso Aste t.aste@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             Consultant (Research Ethics and related areas)
Caroline Wardle c.wardle@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Organiser of the Scientific Integrity and Research Ethics seminar programme for computer science and engineering staff, supporting the "Concordat to Support Research Integrity". Evaluator (with HoD) of computer science applications to UCL's Research Ethics Committee. 
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              Service-related roles

             
 
              
              
             Head of Technical Support Group 
Denis Timm d.timm@cs.ucl.ac.uk

Facilities and Operations Manager
JJ Giwa j.giwa@cs.ucl.ac.uk

Departmental Office Administrator 
Patricia Fenoy p.fenoy@cs.ucl.ac.uk

Office Manager, London Media Technology Campus (One Euston Square)
Jeanie Doel j.doel@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
 
             
Director of Services:
(a) Premises: Dr Lewis Griffin l.griffin@cs.ucl.ac.uk
(b) Technical Services: Professor David Jones d.jones@cs.ucl.ac.uk
A senior role within the Department and key member of the Management Team. Responsible for all infrastructure, technical services, support operations and premises. Leads the development of strategy supported by the professional staff in these areas. Coordinates resources in this area and advises the Head of Department on managerial matters relating to infrastructure, technical services, support operations and premises.

Environmental Responsibility Co-ordinator (Green Champion):
Denis Timm d.timm@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Sets policy and standards for such issues as sustainable working eg recycling, disposal, energy use etc. Co-ordinates review of teaching and ensuring that relevant environmental and sustainability issues are taught to our students. 
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              External Relations roles

             
 
              
              
             External Relations & Events Administrator
Steve Marchant s.marchant@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
Administrative support for the department's publicity and marketing activities, careers liaison, alumni relations, prizes and awards, and events organisation. 

Director of External Relations:
Jane Butler jane.butler@ucl.ac.uk
Responsible for the external presence of the Department and outreach to key constituencies such as industrial supporters, policy makers, alumni etc. Principal 'ambassador' for the Department.
Develops departmental strategy for industry-related activities.  Promotes and encourages industry-related activities. Takes a lead role in work to ensure that the department's teaching, research and knowledge transfer activities are highly relevant and responsive to the needs of industry. Industrial PhD funding, scholarships and internships. 
 
             Liaison with China:
Shi Zhou s.zhou@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Leads initiatives to develop links and collaborative work with China.

Careers Tutor:
Chris Clack c.clack@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Advises students on careers, placements and internships. Circulates careers and placement information. Organises careers talks and receptions. Liaison with careers service. Develops and maintains the department's careers and internships web pages. 

Alumni:
Steve Marchant s.marchant@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
Steve is the key contact for our alumni. He organises events and newsletters, and is always keen to hear from any former CS students.

Publications and Marketing Coordinator:
Steve Marchant s.marchant@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
Steve co-ordinates the production and updating of our publications and marketing materials. 

Professional Societies Liaison:
Denise Gorse d.gorse@cs.ucl.ac.uk 
Key contact for professional societies and accreditation within the department (BCS and the IET.)Responsible for encouraging membership and engagement with professional societies among both staff and students.

Consultant (Research Ethics, Women in Computing and related areas):
Caroline Wardle c.wardle@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Departmental contact for research ethics applications. Member of the Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team. Organiser of the annual London Hopper colloquium aimed at new researchers in computer science. Member of the BCS Academy Women in Research Group and primary liaison for the Karen Spärck Jones annual lecture.
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
           
            
             
             
              
             
              Support roles

             
 
              
              
             DEOLOs (Departmental Equal Opportunities Liaison Officers:
JJ Giwa j.giwa@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Graham Roberts g.roberts@cs.ucl.ac.uk
(Please see this link for more information about the DEOLO role) 
 
             Women in CS Coordinator: 
Zhaoping Li Zhaoping.Li@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Responsible for initiatives to support and encourage women in computer science. 
 
             First Aiders:
The following staff are trained First Aiders:
JJ Giwa j.giwa@cs.ucl.ac.uk (66-72 Gower Street)
Patricia Fenoy p.fenoy@cs.ucl.ac.uk (MPEB, 5th Floor Dept Office) 
 
             Departmental Safety Officer:
Dave Twisleton d.twisleton@cs.ucl.ac.uk MPEB 4th Floor Room 4.18 ext 33667 
 
              
            
 
             
           
 
          
 
         
 
        
 
         
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 27 Mar 2017 and is maintained by 
      Jill Saunders 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2017 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
