 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Students
      ›› Undergrad. Inf.
      ›› Curriculum ›› Year 2 BSc & MEng CS 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
       Year 2 BSc & MEng Computer Science

       This database contains the 2016-17 versions of syllabuses. Syllabuses from the 2015-16 session are available here.

       

       Note: Whilst every effort is made to keep the syllabus and assessment records correct, the precise details must be checked with the lecturer(s).

        
         
         
          
         Students on the 2nd year of the Computer Science programme take 7 compulsory modules (each with a credit value of 15) and 1 elective module from the Integrated Engineering Programme.   
 
         Students on the MEng Computer Science International Programme also have to complete Preparation for Study Abroad. 
 
         Term 3 'How to Change the World'  
 
         Details to be confirmed, but in June 2016, all second year students in the Engineering Sciences Faculty must attend a two-week course entitled 'How to Change the World'. 
 
         Global organisations (including the World Bank, the International Red Cross and Arup) will join us at UCL to present real-world problems, for which you will design solutions. During the fortnight, you will be provided with a programme of themed lectures, training workshops and group work, that move through themes of sustainability, equality and collaboration. You'll have a chance to interact with leaders from, and tackle problems provided by, some of the world's most international employers of engineers. 
 
         Note: Attendance during these two weeks (after your exams are completed) is mandatory, so you will need to stay in London until the very end of term 3 (10 June 2016) 
 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Core Modules

         
 
          
          
         	201P - Networking and Concurrency
	202P - Logic and Database Theory
	206P - Mathematics and Statistics
	203P - Software Engineering and Human Computer Interaction
	207P - Compilers
	204P - Systems Engineering Project 1
	205P - Systems Engineering Project 2

 
          
        
 
         
         
         
          
         
          Minors

         
 
          
          
         You must also choose a minor stream, the first module of which you will take in Term 2 of your second year. 
 
         Details of all the minors available are at: http://www.engineering.ucl.ac.uk/current-students/minors
 
          
        
 
         
       
 
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
